aboutme.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: About me
subtitle: And this website
---

My name is Radhouane Aniba, people call me just Rad.

I am scientist with big interest to how data shapes our lives. I mainly work on Bioinformatics (applying computational methods to help scientists to understand the genomic causes to diseases such us Cancer ) but curious to all fields where data has big impact.

During my scientific journey I learned a lot of concepts and developed a lot of skills, such us : Expert Systems Developments, Knowledge-based system, Data integration, data analysis, Data mining and Text Mining, Machine learning

I am curious and a compulsive scientific book buyer because I am a lifelong learner and believe that everyday there are tons of new things we can learn to be, even a bit, better than the person we were yesterday

## What is the Full Stack Data Science

The Full Stack Data Science is a collection of tips and recipes that will help you go through all aspects of Data Science. Although a lot of peple seem to well define this field, there is still a lot to learn about it. **This fields is moving faster than the people using it**, so one need to keep learning constantly in order to see the whole picture and the extent of Data Science.

In this blog I am covering Machine Learning concepts, programming using mainly R and Python, data engineering as well as distributed data pipeline deployment.

I hope you find the things I am sharing useful to you, if yes, bookmark this website and send me a mail, I will be glad to answer.

Cheers,

... and Keep Learning ...

Commit message:

Adding reading time estimation to posts

aboutme.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: About me
subtitle: And this website
---

My name is Radhouane Aniba, people call me just Rad.

I am scientist with big interest to how data shapes our lives. I mainly work on Bioinformatics (applying computational methods to help scientists to understand the genomic causes to diseases such us Cancer ) but curious to all fields where data has big impact.

During my scientific journey I learned a lot of concepts and developed a lot of skills, such us : Expert Systems Developments, Knowledge-based system, Data integration, data analysis, Data mining and Text Mining, Machine learning

I am curious and a compulsive scientific book buyer because I am a lifelong learner and believe that everyday there are tons of new things we can learn to be, even a bit, better than the person we were yesterday

## What is the 'The Full Stack Data Scientist'

The Full Stack Data Science is a collection of tips and recipes that will help you go through all aspects of Data Science. Although a lot of people seem to define more or less properly this field, there is still a lot to learn about it, actually I don't think we can stop learning new things when we jump into this field. **Data Science is moving faster than the people using it**, so one need to keep learning constantly in order to see the whole picture and the extent of Data Science.

In this blog I am covering Machine Learning concepts, programming using mainly R and Python, data engineering as well as distributed data pipeline deployment.

I hope you find the things I am sharing useful to you, if yes, bookmark this website and send me an email, I will be glad to answer ( I do it most of the time, seriously )

Cheers,

... and Keep Learning ...
