_projects/playstation-vue.md, before:

---
layout: project
title: Playstation Vue
subtitle: A modern streaming internet television service
date: "2017-01-14"

bigimg:
  - "/img/destro/destro_3.jpg"
  - "/img/destro/destro_5.jpg"
  - "/img/destro/destro_1.jpg"
  - "/img/destro/destro_2.jpg"
  - "/img/destro/destro_4.jpg"

images:
  - path: /img/destro/destro_3.jpg
    title: Home Page
  - path: /img/destro/destro_5.jpg
    title: Home Page
  - path: /img/destro/destro_1.jpg
    title: Channels Page
  - path: /img/destro/destro_2.jpg
    title: Channels Page with Description
  - path: /img/destro/destro_4.jpg
    title: Video Player
---


# FireTV Hybrid Web Application

I worked as a front-end developer on the FireTV platform or the Playstation Vue product. The project was a hybrid Web/Android application. I worked in both layers of the application.


## Roles and Responsibilities

- Developed a protocol for communicating between the Android layer and Javascript web app
- Wrote various UI components for the Video Player as well as detail pages
- Helped develop a Javascript Library for communicating to our backend
- Wrote and fully architected the Video Player System

Commit message:

added more info to ps vue

_projects/playstation-vue.md, after:

---
layout: project
title: Playstation Vue
subtitle: A modern streaming internet television service
date: "2017-01-14"

bigimg:
  - "/img/destro/destro_3.jpg"
  - "/img/destro/destro_5.jpg"
  - "/img/destro/destro_1.jpg"
  - "/img/destro/destro_2.jpg"
  - "/img/destro/destro_4.jpg"

images:
  - path: /img/destro/destro_3.jpg
    title: Home Page
  - path: /img/destro/destro_5.jpg
    title: Home Page
  - path: /img/destro/destro_1.jpg
    title: Channels Page
  - path: /img/destro/destro_2.jpg
    title: Channels Page with Description
  - path: /img/destro/destro_4.jpg
    title: Video Player
---


# Web Application

I worked as a front-end developer on the web platform for Playstation Vue. I worked to build the application from ground zero all the way to production and continued to maintain it and add new features.

### Roles and Responsibilities

- Architected and implemented the Auth System using OAuth
- Architected and implemented the Video Player System for HLS video playback
- Implemented various business rules for error scenarios, live program transitions, and more
- Setup selenium testing environment for Automated testing
- Used Ember.js to build reusable UI components
- Used ES6 to write scalable and modular Javascript code




# FireTV Hybrid Application

I worked as a front-end developer on the FireTV platform or the Playstation Vue product. The project was a hybrid Web/Android application. I worked in both layers of the application.


### Roles and Responsibilities

- Developed a protocol for communicating between the Android layer and Javascript web app
- Wrote various UI components for the Video Player as well as detail pages
- Helped develop a Javascript Library for communicating to our backend
- Wrote and fully architected the Video Player System
