---
layout: post
title:  "San Diego"
---

This trip is designed to be a half road trip to Joshua Tree National Park and some resort time on Coronado island.

*Day 1* - When we got out of the airport at 10pm, we headed over to our Turo rental car, a yellow Fiat 500c convertible. We took a free 
airport shuttle to the Rental Car Center and then walked 15 min to the car. It was a sketchy walk, but we survived.

We began our road trip to Borrego Springs (Palm Canyon Hotel & RV Resort), which had a lot of s-shaped roads because we were navigating 
around a mountainous area. In Borrego Springs, we stayed for one night in a quaint style RV park. All the buildings had a old-western style 
architecture with a beautiful view of the mountains. 

*Day 2* - In the morning, we had a classic-diner style breakfast, where kriti usually only orders french toast/grilled cheese and coffee. 
We began our journey to Joshua Tree National Park.

We started the day with a quick hike to an RV park near an oasis. I really liked this hike and wish we had more time to do it. We were 
walking in the middle of the hilly mountain-top and it was very exhilarating.

Hike #2 - Arch Rock Trail. This one was very fun because we were walking and climbing over rocks and took some nice pictures. I felt like
Kriti and I became amateur rock-climbers and mountain rock navigators after this trail. We also discussed our war strategy for a hypothetical potential invading neighbor. Always get more intelligence before making any strategies.

Hike #3 - Skull rock. Cool looking rock that formed into looking like a skull. We chilled at this one a lot and even found our own way out 
of a pile of rocks by climbing.

Hike #3 - Hall of Horrors. Sculptured Rocks.

Hike #4 - Key’s View. This was a grand finale viewpoint of the entire mountain range. We found a nice spot to sit and enjoy the entire view.

After Joshua Tree National Park, we drove to Palm Springs. 

day3-We stayed here for 2 nights and met with Kriti’s cousin, Ashita. We did a quick hike to an oasis in coachella valley nature preserve.. 
Oasis are fascinating because it is a random piece of land that has water and growing trees. Very nice to sit here in the shade while walking in the desert heat. 

We had Bill’s pizza which was really good and then purchased some ice cream and famous date shake.We chilled a bit in downtown palm springs. 
A bird attacked me, but I dodged it.

In the evening, we took a tram up to 8,600 feet elevation. At the top, there was a nice little building where you can purchase food, coffee 
and enjoy the view. There is also a nice little hike that we did. The weather was 15-20 degrees colder from where we started. We got some 
coffee and chatted for about 2-3 hours about lots of things like AI and economy and this was a very interesting chat , we learned a lot form 
ashita.

Last 2 nights, we spent in San Diego. We went to san diego zoo which was really big, dropped off the car, got dinner and went to our hotel. 
Next morning, We went to Coronado Beach, took the ferry to downtown San Diego (little italy and waterfront park) and walked around. 

