---
created: 2021-04-01T18:06:24+05:30
modified: 2021-04-01T18:07:11+05:30
tags: [feminism]
---
[[feminism]]

 I have an anecdote of the more subtle form of sexism that I would guess you've experienced without realizing. I'm copying the text from a post I've made previously before:

STEM is hard. (Arguably, everything is hard.) For any person studying STEM, regardless of gender, they will reach a point where STEM is so hard that will become frustrated with it and question whether or not they want to continue doing it. A major difference between the two genders is how they have been socialized and/or positioned to deal with this situation. If you have learned, either explicitly or implicitly, that people like you aren't good at a certain thing, you'll be more likely to give up when things get tough. If you also don't have the support structure to help get you through this, you'll be more likely to give up.

My own personal anecdote: In high school, we had an AP Physics class. Our school only offered Physics B (physics without calculus), but the teacher offered a lunch time independent study group to learn the extra material for Physics C (physics with calculus). I was the only female student who signed up for this independent study, along with 7 male students. The material was really hard and I struggled. The boys were my classmates and I was friendly with them, but they were all close friends with one another. They had been childhood friends going to sleepovers and sports practice together. They worked on assignments together after school and had dinner with each others' families. When they struggled with a problem, they asked their friend sitting beside them for help. They had also talked through problems outside of the independent study and worked on the homework assignments together. 

I remembered being so nervous to ask the boys for help, like it would be admitting weakness. When I finally got up the nerve, they brushed me off. They didn't want to sacrifice their time for me because they already had worked out the answer within their own clique, which I wasn't a part of. They got nothing out of helping me. I was just some girl, who at age 17, had recently transitioned from being icky to boys to being intimidating to them. I fell further and further behind, and despite having plenty of strong female role models (several female science teachers and my mother is a scientist), I absolutely dwelled on the fact that I was the only one struggling and the only girl. I eventually dropped out of the independent study. 

I think my anecdote illustrates my main points: 1) I was never explicitly told "you're a girl so you shouldn't do STEM" by anyone ever. It was implicit in the fact that every famous/historical scientist I knew was male, every scientist on TV was male, and there were few/no girls in my high level STEM classes. 2) Because social interactions tend to fall along gender lines for children especially, the fact that there are fewer females in STEM means there is less academic, social, and emotional support for budding female scientists. 3) The combined effect of the implicit assumption that girls are bad at STEM and the lack of support when things became difficult led to me giving up on something that a male student with equivalent experience and abilities might have persisted in. 
