---
created: 2021-04-01T18:06:24+05:30
modified: 2021-04-01T18:07:11+05:30
tags: [feminism]
---
[[feminism]]

 Also, people who approach you on the street are self-sorted as people who feel entitled to your time and are already comfortable violating social norms, and have time to bother you, and it's not a coincidence that they decided to approach a woman alone instead of someone else. I am naturally a polite and cooperative person. When someone stops me for directions, what time it is, which aisle might the bread be, etc, I normally want to answer that question with a non-rude facial expression and tone of voice, and *then I expect them to go away.* What usually happens is that I am followed and verbally harassed. The initial interaction is testing a boundary, and the polite response is taken as a weakness and an invitation. The men then invariably get hostile when you do not want to continue to entertain them. I will not acknowledge a stranger saying a single thing to me in public now. I don't feel good about that, but it's necessary where I currently live. Go ask an old man which aisle has the bread.

With that said I live in a city with one of the highest rates of violence against women in the country, so it depends. The last place I lived, this never happened.

------------

I just kind of want to add this for any men reading. Here's what it's like

"Hi sorry do you happen to know where the bread is? I thought it'd be here with the crackers but no such luck." "Oh it's down there with the peanut butter."

A) This man is actually looking for bread. He saw the bread in your basket and figured you must have known where to get it. He says thank you and walks away in the direction you pointed. Neither of you think about this ever again and walk away feeling slightly positive about the world.

B) This man is not looking for bread, he is looking for an excuse to talk to women. He has tried this 5 times today already. He glanced at your basket and asked for the first thing he saw. He doesn't walk away. He starts asking more questions. He wants to know your name. He wants to know what you're doing in this town. He wants to know what you're making with bread and powdered sugar and batteries. Funny, given your tight figure he can't picture you eating powdered sugar. Maybe you'll be his sugar without the calories. Hey, didn't you get what he meant? He's funny, right? Even though you're not looking at him and ignoring his questions and really booking it past the cereals, he starts talking to you about his sandwich preferences and how mommy used to make the best french toast with powdered sugar. But maybe you're the type of skinny bitch who skips breakfast. Yeah, frigid, that's what you are, that's why you don't have a nice ass, and those leggings ain't fooling nobody if that's what you think, but he knows you like the attention, you dress like that for him. That's alright, one night with him, and he'll take you out to brunch so you'll understand all about french toast. Nobody else is in the baking aisle so you're trying to avoid a confrontation, but it's getting a little late for that. Yikes, he's following you up and down the aisles even though you've turned around three times. Fuck you for answering a question right? This is your fault. He wants to know where you live. Do you live around here? Maybe with family? Nah, don't see no ring on that finger. Must be all alone. Trying to attract a man. Not even a roommate, he bets, poor you. You resist the urge to whirl around and tell him you have 8 brothers and a bigass dog and they're all cops. Don't escalate. You know better. You're trying not to look at him but you notice he doesn't have anything in his hands besides the packet of crackers he picked up as a prop right before approaching you. He starts getting angry. "Hey, what happened, you can't hear me?" He starts muttering gross things under his breath and you wish you actually couldn't hear him. When an older lady who makes you feel safe comes into view, you announce "I'm just trying to grab some groceries man." You're making eye-contact with her, not him. She stares daggers at him. You can feel it even though he's behind you. He's says some nasty things about squeezing your ass like you squeeze that fruit. You circle the produce aisle a few times until you think you've lost him. You and the old lady talk about how to use chayote in stew. But 20 minutes later when you check out and leave, he follows you from the store, still having no groceries in his hands. The bus driver won't let him on though. You gave him The Look, but you probably didn't need to; that guy's a bro.

Scenario B is a lot more common. Even if you're a very nice normal dude, don't approach women minding their own business. Doing so puts a huge burden on them to try to figure out if you're psycho and how to make sure you'll go away without murdering them. I'm sorry a bunch of rapists made it harder for you to find your bread, but just don't. 
