---
layout: post
title: Unsustainable Agricultural Practices
---

Water scarcity is the number one environmental threat, and will continue to become
a more prominent issue as the human population continues to increase. In the year
of 2030, less than 40% of the demand for water will be met. Corporations such as
big food companies, are one of the major reasons why water scarcity is an issue,
due to their unsustainable agricultural practices. Agriculture accounts for 70%
of the world’s water usage. This is more of a problem due to big food companies
not being concerned about water risks. 69% of big food companies do not evaluate
water issues, while 89% do not follow sustainable water practices or offer
financial support to agricultural producers (2016 AgWater Challenge).

Unsustainable agricultural practices result in water pollution and can impact
climate change. Agricultural runoff, untreated wastewater, and industrial waste,
are all forms of pollution that negatively impact the environment and organisms
relying on that particular area. An accumulation of nutrient pollution in a body
of water can lead to the formation of harmful bacteria. Currently, billions of
people lack access to water, or have inadequate sanitation. Diseases caused by
unsafe water conditions have led to more deaths per year than all forms of
violence combined. Unsustainable agricultural practices will only make these
numbers increase. This can even result in harmful algal blooms, damaging not only
the aquatic ecosystem in a habitat, but also the economy of surrounding
civilizations.

Humans cannot survive without freshwater, and unfortunately most of it is going
to waste. Agriculture accounts for 70% of the freshwater usage, but big food
companies are not following sustainable water practices. This has led to an
increase in water scarcity, water pollution, as well as impacting climate change.
More people die from water-related diseases, resulting from inadequate sanitization,
than war every single year. Companies need to change their policies and views
towards water use, in order to secure a future for our species. Agriculture is
needed in order to produce enough food for humanity’s survival, but that cannot
be done without water.
