---
layout: post
title:  "Github will display movies, sort of"
date:   2017-10-03
categories: posts
author: devonorourke
tags: 'computery'
---

In creating *'how to'* posts I've found that there are plenty of times where a screen capture would save me *loads* of time rather than typing out step by step instructions. While static screen grabs are often used, there are moments where a video recording of my screen would be much more helpful. Unfortunately the Markdown syntax used within these Github-hosted pages doesn't allow for the import of certain file types; namely video-style formats of any kind. Bummer.  

Fortunately there is a workaround - you can import .gif files and treat them just like static images as far as the Markdown syntax is concerned. My workflow for generating through publishing .gif files in a Markdown style format is as follows.  

## Step 1 - Make your movie
I have a Mac, which has Quicktime, which is just about all I ever need to do basic screen capture work. See [this tutorial](http://etc.usf.edu/techease/4all/getting-started/creating-screen-recordings-with-quicktime-player/) for one example (there are many) using such an approach. Ultimately you need to generate a .mov file to carry on to **Step 2** next.  

## Step 2 - Install software to convert .mov file to .gif
Thanks to Alex D for this *suuuper* easy to use piece of software: [screengif](https://github.com/dergachev/screengif) Install instructions are provided on the default README.md page, but note you're going to have to also install a few dependencies. In case that's unfamiliar I'll walk you through it a few ways starting from the ground up.  

> To the impatient - see [his page](https://github.com/dergachev/screengif) for a quick Docker-based implementation if you know what you're doing...  

- Do you have the Homebrew package manager installed? While I use Conda for most installs, in this case Homebrew is much easier (so I'm using it for this scenario). If yes to Homebrew, proceed.  
  - No Homebrew?  

```
/usr/bin/ruby -e "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/master/install)"
```

  - No package mamanger at all? - [here's a primer](https://www.slant.co/topics/511/~best-mac-package-managers)  

  > Note that I've advocated using [Conda](https://conda.io/docs/index.html) for install of packages in other blog posts.

- Do you have Ruby installed? If yes, proceed.
  - No? See lots of alternative [install info here](http://railsapps.github.io/installrubyonrails-mac.html), but I'm assuming you're doing it either the Brew way:

```
## Brew
brew install ruby
```

If you're set up with Homebrew, install of the program and all other dependencies is a breeze:
```
brew install ffmpeg 
brew cask install x-quartz #dependency for gifsicle, only required for mountain-lion and above
open /usr/local/Cellar/x-quartz/2.7.4/XQuartz.pkg # runs the XQuartz installer
brew install gifsicle
```




If you need to have this software first in your PATH run:
  echo 'export PATH="/usr/local/opt/openssl/bin:$PATH"' >> ~/.bash_profile
  
  
  


## Step 3 - run the software
Did you get an error as follows: `-bash: /usr/local/bin/screengif: /usr/local/opt/ruby/bin/ruby: bad interpreter: No such file or directory`? If you look at the `screengif` script used to run the program it looks for it in a place where Homebrew typically installs things - if you don't have that you need to tell the script where to find Ruby. Here's what I did:  

**Step 1** - find the `screengif` and `ruby` paths
```
## where's my `screengif` program?
which screengif
  # generates an output of: /usr/local/bin/screengif

## where's Ruby?
which ruby
  # generates an output of: /anaconda/bin/ruby
```

So the `screengif` file lives at `/usr/local/bin/screengif` and `Ruby` is located at `/anaconda/bin/ruby`. Let's edit that `screengif` file and change the shebang indicating where to find Ruby (note you might need to enter your password):  

```
sudo nano /usr/local/bin/screengif
```

Then edit the first line, replacing `#!/usr/local/opt/ruby/bin/ruby` with `#!/anaconda/bin/ruby`
## Step 4 - insert a .gif file with Markdown syntax
