---
layout: post
title: Act now to block Rex Tillerson's appointment as Secretary of State
subtitle: ACTION ITEM for Wednesday, Jan 11
tags: [action-alert]
---

**CALL TODAY** and ask Senators Cornyn and Cruz to block Rex Tillerson’s appointment as Secretary of State

On Wednesday, January 11th, the Senate Foreign Relations Committee begins
confirmation hearings for Sen. Rex Tillerson, Trump’s pick for Secretary
of State.

Mr. Tillerson has no government or diplomatic experience, yet he will
be our country's chief diplomat. He was the CEO of ExxonMobil. He has
deep entanglements with Vladimir Putin and the Russian state-owned oil
giant Rosneft. Acting for ExxonMobil, he went so far as to undermine
U.S. sanctions against Russia for the invasion of Ukraine.

More info here: [Rex Tillerson’s potentially huge conflict of interest over Russia and oil, explained](http://www.vox.com/energy-and-environment/2016/12/14/13940866/trump-rex-tillerson-sanctions-russia)

Environmentalists oppose Tillerson.  The Sierra Club says:

> Appointing an oil executive with zero government experience to be
> Secretary of State undermines U.S. foreign relations and leadership
> in addressing climate change and human rights violations around the
> world. ExxonMobil – where Tillerson has worked for his entire career
> over the past 40 years – has deliberately concealed its knowledge
> of climate science while funding denialist groups for decades. It was
> also responsible for the Exxon Valdez oil spill, one of the costliest
> environmental disasters in history, and has a history of supporting
> violence and intimidation against local communities facing its global
> operations.

[reference](https://sierra.secure.force.com/actions/National?actionId=AR0062873)

### Sample Script

> Hello, my name is ____________. I am a constituent of Sen. [Cornyn or Cruz]
> and I am calling to urge the senator to oppose Rex Tillerson’s
> nomination as Secretary of State. Our Secretary of State should not have
> close personal ties to Russia and should not have obvious conflicts of
> interest.  Tillerson is a dangerous choice for America and I hope Senator
> ____________ will oppose his nomination. Thank you for your time.


### Contact Info

Sen. John Cornyn

* Central Texas office: (512) 469-6034
* Washington DC office: (202) 224-2934

Sen. Ted Cruz

* Central Texas office: (512) 916-5834
* Washington, DC office: (202) 224-5922

Best to call during normal business hours to increase chances of speaking
directly to a staffer. If phones are busy try again shortly. If you get
voicemail you can leave a message, but it's always better to talk to
a staffer.

