---
layout: post
title: Act now to oppose Trump's Muslim Ban
subtitle: CALL TO ACTION for Monday, Jan 30
tags: [front, action-alert]
---

**CALL TODAY** and ask Rep. McCaul about his involvement in Trump's Muslim Ban

Call Rep. McCaul and demand to know his involvement in crafting
Trump’s Muslim Ban and whether he will support its reversal in light
on overwhelming public opposition.

Since Trump signed the executive order barring refugees and immigrants
from several Muslim nations (some of which are official allies, none
of which do business with the Trump organization) the public outrage
has been fierce.

Our representative, Michael McCaul, was singled out by Rudy Giuliani as
a key contributor to the order, but since then he has waffled back and
forth on TV interviews and social media, at times celebrating the order
as a win for American security, and at other times criticizing certain
aspects of it and downplaying his involvement.

His constituents deserve to know what his real position is on a matter
of such global importance!

More info: [Texas congressional delegation largely silent on Trump travel ban](https://www.texastribune.org/2017/01/29/texas-congressional-support-trump-refugee-ban-fall/)


### Sample Script

> Hi, my name is ______ and I am a constituent of Rep. McCaul. I am calling because I heard that Rep. McCaul had some involvement in the writing of Trump’s Muslim Ban, which I find to be a cruel, un-American action that will only make us less safe by aiding the recruitment efforts of terrorist organizations. I’d like to know specifically what part McCaul played in crafting the executive order, where he stands on the issue today, and whether he will consider supporting its reversal.

If you do not get satisfactory answers, you can ask that the staffer return your call with more details by a certain day, say Wednesday. If they don’t get back to you by then, *call again!*



### Contact Info

**Congressman Michael McCaul**

Washington, DC office: 202-225-2401<br />
Austin office: 512-473-2357<br />

Austin field office address:<br />
9009 Mountain Ridge Drive<br />
Austin Building, Suite 230<br />
Austin, TX 78759<br />
hours: M-F 9-5:30pm<br />

