---
layout: post
title: CALL Rep. McCaul to demand an investigation into the Trump administration's ties to Russia
subtitle: CALL TO ACTION for Thursday, Feb. 14
tags: [front, action-alert]
---

### SPECIAL CALL TO ACTION TODAY!

## CALL Representative McCaul today and demand an investigation into the Trump administration’s ties to Russia!

The resignation of General Michael Flynn is an important first
step, but it provides no meaningful answers about the Trump
administration's apparent ties to Russia. Recent reporting makes
it clear that President Trump knew of Flynn's potential conflicts
and ties to Russia in January and failed to act. Because of this,
Flynn was granted high level security clearance even though he was
potentially compromised by a foreign state. As a nation, we cannot
turn a blind eye to this crisis of faith in our democratic
institutions brought on by the arrogance of the Trump administration.

## Sample script

> "Hello, my name is &#95;&#95;&#95;&#95;&#95; and I am a constituent of
> Representative McCaul. I am calling to demand that he MAKE A PUBLIC
> STATEMENT on the resignation of General Michael Flynn and that he
> HOLD A HEARING in the House Homeland Security Committee investigating
> the Flynn's ties to Russia. As an American, I am deeply troubled by
> the appearance of an improper relationship between the Trump
> administration and the Vladimir Putin’s Russia. The American people
> deserve to know that we can have faith and trust in our government.
> Thank you for your time."

## CONTACT INFO:

Rep. Michael McCaul

* D.C. office: (202) 225-2401
* Austin office: (512) 473-2357
* Katy office: (281) 398-1247
* Tomball office: (281) 255-8372
* Brenham office: (979) 830-8497

## More Info:

[Flynn resigns amid controversy over Russia contacts (CNN.com)](http://www.cnn.com/2017/02/13/politics/michael-flynn-white-house-national-security-adviser/)
