---
layout: post
title: Act now to oppose Betsy Devos as Secretary of Education 
subtitle: ACTION ITEM for Thursday, Jan 12
tags: [action-alert]
---

**CALL TODAY** and ask Senators Cornyn and Cruz to vote NO on Betsy Devos as Secretary of Education 

Betsy DeVos begins her confirmation hearing on Tuesday, Jan. 17th for Secretary of Education, despite having never been a teacher or worked in education. In fact, her only qualification seems to be a lifelong obsession with eliminating public education altogether. Like many of Trump’s picks, the Michigan billionaire is awash in potential conflicts of interest. The Office of Government Ethics is busy sifting through the paperwork of the over 250 companies she and her husband own—already finding personal income related to the department she hopes to run. The American people overwhelming oppose the privatization of education that she will make a priority if confirmed. Call Senators Cruz and Cornyn TODAY and tell them to oppose her appointment to the Department of Education!

More info here: [Betsy DeVos, Trump’s Education Pick, Plays Hardball With Her Wealth](https://www.nytimes.com/2017/01/09/us/politics/betsy-devos-education-secretary.html)


### Sample Script

> Hi my name is ____________, I am a constituent of Sen [Cornyn or Cruz] and I am calling to urge you to vote “NO” on the confirmation of Betsy DeVos for Secretary of Education. DeVos has no training or experience in education and supports dangerous and unproven policies that would funnel billions of taxpayer dollars to private companies. This is both unconstitutional and against the values of the millions of Texans who believe in the value of public education. Our children deserve better – vote “NO”.


### Contact Info

Sen. John Cornyn

* Central Texas office: (512) 469-6034
* Washington DC office: (202) 224-2934

Sen. Ted Cruz

* Central Texas office: (512) 916-5834
* Washington, DC office: (202) 224-5922

Best to call during normal business hours to increase chances of speaking
directly to a staffer. If phones are busy try again shortly. If you get
voicemail you can leave a message, but it's always better to talk to
a staffer.

