---
layout: post
title: Act now to oppose Ben Carson’s appointment as head of Housing and Urban Development
subtitle: ACTION ITEM for Thursday, Jan 12
tags: [action-alert]
---

**CALL TODAY** and ask Senators Cornyn and Cruz to oppose Ben Carson’s appointment as head of Housing and Urban Development!

On January 12th, Ben Carson begins his confirmation hearing as Trump’s pick to run the Department of Housing and Urban Development. This is a man who has never served in any post at any level of government, and previously turned down another cabinet position because he had “never run an agency.” Despite growing up poor in Detroit, Carson has shown little sympathy for inner city minorities, labelling poverty a “choice,” and condemning the Obama administration's efforts to reduce housing segregation as a "failed socialist experiment.” If he is confirmed, Carson is expected to roll back anti-discriminatory housing regulations and defund programs that offer financial assistance to low-income families.

CALL Senators Cornyn and Cruz and urge them to block Ben Carson’s appointment as secretary of HUD!

More info here: [Ben Carson’s Warped View of Housing](https://www.nytimes.com/2016/12/19/opinion/ben-carsons-warped-view-of-housing.html)


### Sample Script

> Hello, my name is _______________ and I’m a constituent of Sen. [Cornyn or Cruz]. I’m calling to ask him to oppose Dr. Ben Carson as secretary of Housing and Urban Development. By his own admission, Carson is unqualified to run a federal agency. And though he has no policy record to judge, his past statements make it clear he does not believe in the federal government’s obligation to reduce racial discrimination and segregation, nor in the agency’s role of offering housing assistance to low-income families. I hope you will demand a higher qualification for this important position than political loyalty to the President-Elect. Thank you.


### Contact Info

Sen. John Cornyn

* Central Texas office: (512) 469-6034
* Washington DC office: (202) 224-2934

Sen. Ted Cruz

* Central Texas office: (512) 916-5834
* Washington, DC office: (202) 224-5922

Best to call during normal business hours to increase chances of speaking
directly to a staffer. If phones are busy try again shortly. If you get
voicemail you can leave a message, but it's always better to talk to
a staffer.

