---
layout: post
title: Act now to oppose Jeff Sessions as Attorney General
subtitle: PRIMARY CALL TO ACTION for Tuesday, Feb 7
tags: [front, action-alert]
---

**CALL TODAY** and ask Senators Cornyn and Cruz to oppose Jeff Sessions to serve as Attorney General of the United States. 

As a senator, Jeff Sessions has a history of anti-black, anti-woman and anti-immigrant extremism. He is unfit to be the country’s chief law enforcement officer, especially when it comes to enforcement of our civil rights laws. Senator Sessions has consistently opposed many of the crucial laws and programs he will be responsible for enforcing at the US Department of Justice.

More info:  [Jeff Sessions Fights for Racist Outcomes. Who Cares What’s in His Heart?](http://www.slate.com/articles/news_and_politics/politics/2017/01/jeff_sessions_fights_for_racist_outcomes_who_care_what_s_in_his_heart.html)

_[Note: this is the first of two actions for today. If you complete this action please
consider next taking action to [oppose Steve Bannon](/2017-02-06-article01).]_


### Sample Script

<blockquote>
Hello, my name is ____ and I am a constituent of Senator Cornyn (Cruz). I am calling to urge the Senator to vote no on Jeff Sessions to serve as Attorney General of the United States. Given his past record of disregard for civil, human, voting and other Constitutional rights, I believe he is unfit to serve as US Attorney General.
</blockquote>


### Contact Info

Sen. John Cornyn

* Central Texas office: 512-469-6034
* Washington, DC office: 202-224-2934

Sen. Ted Cruz

* Central Texas office: 512-916-5834
* Washington, DC office: 202-224-5922

Best to call during normal business hours to increase chances of speaking
directly to a staffer. If phones are busy try again shortly. If you get
voicemail you can leave a message, but it's always better to talk to
a staffer.

If you've never made phone calls before, here's help: [How to contact your representatives.](https://www.indivisibleaustin.com/take-action-now/how-to-contact-your-representatives/)

