---
layout: post
title: Act now to oppose Steve Bannon's appointment to the National Security Council
subtitle: PRIMARY CALL TO ACTION for Monday, Feb 6
tags: [action-alert]
---

**Call today** and ask Rep. McCaul to oppose Steve Bannon’s appointment to the National Security Council.

Steve Bannon’s recent ascension to the Principals Committee of the National Security Council is deeply troubling considering his inexperience in foreign policy and extreme nationalist views.

Furthermore, his tenure as editor of _Breitbart.com_, which he himself described as a “platform for the alt-right,” closely associates him with an unabashedly racist, misogynistic movement.

There is no precedent for a political strategist having a seat at the table that is supposed to give the President objective, non-partisan advice. It may not even be legal. His appointment relies on slippery wording in an executive order to get around the traditional precaution of having Congress confirm all members of the NSC. Because of this, Congress potentially has the power to rescind this appointment, and as Chair of the Homeland Security Committee, Michael McCaul has a unique responsibility to maintain the integrity of American’s foreign policy procedures.

Call Rep. McCaul and ask him to oppose Steve Bannon’s appointment to the Principals Committee of the NSC.

More info: [Steve Bannon’s Presence on the National Security Council Is Not Just Terrible. It’s Illegal.](http://www.slate.com/articles/news_and_politics/war_stories/2017/02/steve_bannon_doesn_t_belong_on_the_nsc_that_s_what_the_law_says.html)

_[Note: this is the first of two actions for today. If you complete this action please
consider next taking action to [oppose Betsy DeVos](/2017-02-05-article01).]_

### Sample Script

<blockquote>Hello, my name is ____ and I am a constituent of Rep. McCaul. I’m calling to urge him to oppose Steve Bannon’s appointment to the National Security Council. It is unprecedented for a purely political operative with no foreign policy experience to have a seat on the Principals Committee, let alone one with extreme white nationalist views. In his authoring of the Muslim Ban, Bannon has already shown a willingness to go above the heads of the other members of the Council and Congress. As chair of the Homeland Security Committee, it is McCaul’s duty to maintain the integrity of America’s foreign policy decision-making process. I urge him to do whatever he can to reverse Bannon’s appointment to the National Security Council. Thank you.</blockquote>


### Contact Info

Rep. Michael McCaul

* Austin office: 512-473-2357
* Washington, DC office: 202-225-2401

Best to call during normal business hours to increase chances of speaking
directly to a staffer. If phones are busy try again shortly. If you get
voicemail you can leave a message, but it's always better to talk to
a staffer.

If you've never made phone calls before, here's help: [How to contact your representatives.](https://www.indivisibleaustin.com/take-action-now/how-to-contact-your-representatives/)

