---
layout: post
title: Act now to demand Rep. McCaul hold a town hall
subtitle: CALL TO ACTION for Thursday, Feb. 9
tags: [front, action-alert]
---

**CALL REP. MCCAUL TODAY** and demand a town hall!

Rep. McCaul has not had held an open forum for the people he represents for a _long_ time. (His website shows no record of one since 2009). If there was ever a time to show his constituents that he’s listening to their concerns, it’s _now_. According to the House calendar, representatives have the week of Feb. 20 set aside for “district work,” so McCaul should be able to make time for constituents then if he were so inclined.

Call Rep. McCaul and demand a town hall ASAP!

If the staffers cannot give you direct answers about this (they won’t), tell them you will _call back_ within the week to check what progress has been made.


### Sample Script

<blockquote>
Hello, my name is ______ and I am a constituent of Rep. McCaul. I am calling to ask him to schedule a town hall as soon as possible to address the concerns of his constituents. There is a lot of confusion and anxiety about where the federal government is headed, and Rep. McCaul owes it to the people he represents to have an open dialogue on his views for America’s future. Does the Congressman have any plans for town halls in the near future, and is he willing to speak with his constituents directly?
</blockquote>


### Contact Info

Rep. Michael McCaul

* Washington, DC office: 202-225-2401
* Austin office: 512-473-2357
* Katy office: 281-398-1247
* Tomball office: 281-255-8372
* Brenham office: 979-830-8497

Best to call during normal business hours to increase chances of speaking
directly to a staffer. If phones are busy try again shortly. If you get
voicemail you can leave a message, but it's always better to talk to
a staffer.

If you've never made phone calls before, here's help: [How to contact your representatives.](https://www.indivisibleaustin.com/take-action-now/how-to-contact-your-representatives/)


### Next Actions

After you complete this action, please see additional actions [posted by Indivisible Austin](https://www.indivisibleaustin.com/actions-for-the-week/).

Let our reps hear from us _every day_.

