---
layout: post
title: Demand REP. McCAUL PUBLICLY SUPPORT a Congressional investigation into Trump’s Russia ties
subtitle: CALL TO ACTION for Thursday, Feb. 16
tags: [front, action-alert]
---

This is not a scandal anymore. It’s a full-blown crisis. In early
January, Rep. Michael McCaul said that Trump’s relationship to
Russia "deserves investigation, but he hasn’t made any further
statement since the resignation of Gen. Flynn and new revelations
that Trump’s aides were in constant communication with Russian
intelligence during the campaign. Democrats and some Republicans
are publicly calling for congressional investigations, and as
chairman of the Homeland Security Committee, it would be a massive
step forward if Rep. McCaul joined them.

CALL REP. McCAUL and ask him to PUBLICLY SUPPORT a bipartisan
Congressional investigation into Trump's ties to Russia.

## Sample script

> Hello, my name is &#95;&#95;&#95;&#95;&#95; and I am a constituent
> of Rep. McCaul. I am calling to ask him to publicly support a
> bipartisan congressional investigation into President Trump's
> ties to Russia. Over a month ago, Rep. McCaul assured his
> constituents that Congress would get to the bottom of this
> issue, but despite more incriminating revelations in the last
> week, he has yet to join Democrats and Republicans in Congress
> in calling for investigations. The possibility that Russia has
> infiltrated our highest levels of government is a national
> security crisis, and as chair of the Homeland Security
> Committee, Rep. McCaul has an obligation to be a leader on
> this issue, not a bystander. Thank you.

## CONTACT INFO:

Rep. Michael McCaul

* D.C. office: (202) 225-2401
* Austin office: (512) 473-2357
* Katy office: (281) 398-1247
* Tomball office: (281) 255-8372
* Brenham office: (979) 830-8497

## More Info:

[Time for Congress to Investigate Mr. Trump’s Ties to Russia (NY Times)](https://www.nytimes.com/2017/02/15/opinion/time-for-congress-to-investigate-mr-trumps-ties-to-russia.html)

[Texans in Congress raise questions about Russia, Trump administration (Texas Tribune)](https://www.texastribune.org/2017/02/14/texans-raise-questions-about-russia-trump/)
