---
layout: post
title: Urge Rep. McCaul and to put the "Presidential Conflicts of Interest Act of 2017" up for a vote.
subtitle: CALL TO ACTION for Thursday, Feb. 14
tags: [front, action-alert]
---

**Call Rep. McCaul** and urge him to put House Resolution 371, the
"Presidential Conflicts of Interest Act of 2017" up for a vote!

The president’s many conflicts of interest are once again front and
center. He has recently publicly attacked Nordstrom over a business
deal and his counselor Kellyanne Conway took advantage of an interview
on a news network to broadcast an infomercial on behalf of the Ivanka
Trump clothing line. Today, we even saw that wealthy members of his
Mar-a-Lago club ($200,000 for a membership) are entitled to front row
seats of national security meetings typically held in ultra-secure
locations. The "Presidential Conflicts of Interest Act of 2017"
sponsored by Representative Katherine Clark would require the president
to put his investments in a blind trust and cooperate in annual reports
on his financial interests. We need to put pressure on Representative
McCaul to put House Resolution 371 to a vote.

SAMPLE SCRIPT:

> My name is [______]. I’m a constituent of Representative McCaul.
> I'm calling to ask him to support H.R. 371, the "Presidential Conflict
> of Interest Act." The American people deserve a president who is
> accountable to us. I expect my representatives to uphold the integrity
> of the presidency and support this resolution.

More info here:
[This week in Donald Trump’s conflicts of interest: When Ivanka and Melania tried to cash in (Salon.com)](http://www.salon.com/2017/02/11/this-week-in-donald-trumps-conflicts-of-interest-when-ivanka-and-melania-tried-to-cash-in/)
