---
layout: post
title: Act now to oppose Rick Perry for Secretary of Energy
subtitle: ACTION ITEM for Thursday, Jan 19
tags: [action-alert]
---

**CALL TODAY** and ask Senators Cornyn and Cruz to vote NO on Rick Perry for Secretary of Energy.

In his ill-fated run for the White House, then-Gov. Rick Perry experienced a big oops moment: he forgot the name of the Department of Energy and now he's been nominated to run it. Like several of Trump’s picks, Perry has expressed open disdain for the agency he’s been nominated to head, but he’s taken it step further. In 2011 he wanted to eliminate the Department of Energy, which is responsible for maintaining the country’s nuclear weapons arsenal. He is also on record as a long-term climate change skeptic (he has acknowledged it, but downplays its risks), and is unlikely to continue the Department’s focus on cultivating renewable energy sources. Furthermore, Rick Perry has no scientific or professional background that qualifies him for this role. Call Senators Cruz and Cornyn TODAY and tell them to oppose Rick Perry’s appointment to the Department of Energy!


More info here: [‘Learning Curve’ as Rick Perry Pursues a Job He Initially Misunderstood](https://www.nytimes.com/2017/01/18/us/politics/rick-perry-energy-secretary-donald-trump.html)


### Sample Script

> Hi my name is ____________, I am a constituent of Sen. [Cornyn or Cruz] and I am calling to urge you to vote “NO” on the confirmation of Rick Perry for Secretary of Energy. Gov. Perry has no scientific or professional background that qualifies him to serve in this role. His fundamental misunderstanding that the DOE is responsible for securing our nation’s nuclear arsenal makes him wholly unqualified for this role. Furthermore, he is on the record as a climate change skeptic, and I believe he is unlikely to continue the DOE’s cultivation of safe, renewable energy sources. I hope you will demand a higher qualification for this important position than political loyalty to the President-Elect. Thank you.


### Contact Info

Sen. John Cornyn

* Central Texas office: (512) 469-6034
* Washington DC office: (202) 224-2934

Sen. Ted Cruz

* Central Texas office: (512) 916-5834
* Washington, DC office: (202) 224-5922

Best to call during normal business hours to increase chances of speaking
directly to a staffer. If phones are busy try again shortly. If you get
voicemail you can leave a message, but it's always better to talk to
a staffer.

