---
layout: post
title: Act now to support full background checks for cabinet nominees
subtitle: ACTION ITEM for Monday, Jan. 9
tags: [action-alert]
---

Donald Trump has assembled one of the wealthiest and least transparent
cabinets in history, with complex financial ties and minimal (or
nonexistent) records of public service. Background vetting has never been
more important, but Senate Republicans are ignoring requests from the
[Office of Government Ethics](https://www.oge.gov/) for more examination
time, seeking to ram through the confirmations with what ethics experts
call an "unprecedented" lack of scrutiny.

More info: [Ethics official warns against confirmations before reviews are complete](https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/ethics-official-warns-against-confirmations-before-reviews-are-complete/2017/01/07/e85a97ee-d348-11e6-9cb0-54ab630851e8_story.html)

**Call** Senators Cornyn and Cruz and ask them to support a delay in the confirmation process to allow for full background examination of cabinet nominees!

### Sample Script

> Hello, my name is ________________, I’m a constituent of Senator [Cornyn or Cruz], and I’m calling to ask him to support the Office of Government Ethics’ request for more time, so they can finish their examination of Trump’s Cabinet picks before the confirmation hearings. Many of these nominees have complex financial ties and have never faced public scrutiny. The American people have a right to know about their conflicts of interest before they are put in these powerful positions. Thank you.”

### Contact Info

Sen. John Cornyn

* Central Texas office: (512) 469-6034
* Washington DC office: (202) 224-2934

Sen. Ted Cruz

* Central Texas office: (512) 916-5834
* Washington, DC office: (202) 224-5922

Best to call during normal business hours to increase chances of speaking directly to a staffer.

