---
layout: post
title: We rallied at Sen. Cruz's office for&nbsp;#ResistTrumpTuesday
subtitle: ACTION ITEM for Tuesday, Jan 24
tags: [front]
---

129 people showed up to our #ResistTrumpTuesday rally at Sen. Cruz's
Central Austin Office today (Tues, 24 Jan 2017) to urge Sen. Cruz to
vote *no* to Trump's corrupt, unqualified cabinet nominees.

We were not allowed inside but a staffer came down and listened to us for an entire hour. One by one, people shared deep concerns and personal stories.

It was quite an emotional event, with some tears, some rage, some
laughter, and lots of supportive cheers. We know Senator Cruz probably
doesn't want to listen to us -- but we made our voices heard. We let them
know we will not roll over. We let them know that we love this country
and are willing to show up and fight for it. This is what Indivisible
is all about.

And this is just the beginning. Let's double the crowd next time. Stay tuned.

The _Austin American-Statesman_ covered the rally:

> Constituents concerned with the aptitude of several of President Donald Trump’s Cabinet appointees rallied Tuesday outside the Austin office of U.S. Sen. Ted Cruz to urge him to vote against their confirmations, arguing the majority, if not all, of the president’s picks are not qualified to lead their respective departments.
>
> More than 100 people gathered outside of the J.J. Pickle Federal Building downtown to pressure the state’s junior senator to vote against the appointees, including Betsy DeVos for education secretary and U.S. Sen. Jeff Sessions of Alabama for attorney general.

Full story here: [Austinites gather at Ted Cruz’s office to protest Trump’s Cabinet picks](http://www.mystatesman.com/news/state--regional-govt--politics/austinites-gather-ted-cruz-office-protest-trump-cabinet-picks/PeEG7vCs8S1ZKyohSStTrJ/)

Here's a video from the event:

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/XvQwSMxGdDw" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
