---
layout: post
title: SciPy2017
subtitle: My first Scientific Computing with Python conference experience
image: 
tags: [scipy, conference, Python]
---

[SciPy2017](https://scipy2017.scipy.org/) happened in Austin, TX last week, July 10-16. The yearly event, which started in 2009 in San Francisco, CA, included tutorials and conference as well as free "sprints" (more on this later). I got to participate in the conference and meet some people whose work I only get to read on the internet and books since I started learning Python and data science. It was a great experience and I was very lucky to have participated in it! I missed the tutorials, which are available [online](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLYx7XA2nY5GfdAFycPLBdUDOUtdQIVoMf) anyways, but I was able to make at least one day of "sprints", which are what the community calls their hackathons. Here, anyone can volunteer to contribute code or other things needed in different Python applications or packages. Though this was my first time in a SciPy conference, this was actually my third data science-related conference of the year. At this rate, the number of computing conferences I've attended might exceed the number of chemistry conferences I've been to in my entire life! That may be sad!

But going back to the SciPy conf experience, it is totally different from the chemical conferences I've been to. People were laid-back and informal. Aside from the sprints, which chemical conferences lack, another difference is the "lightning talks" which are five-minute talks given by participants on the fly, though participants needed to sign-up a few hours prior to it. These lightning talks are not only given in a lightning, swift manner, but also in a light, casual way. In essence, participants are not judged whether the talk sucked or not (not one sucked, really!), though entertaining onces get the most applause and laughs. Moderators throw jokes in between speakers and make sure speakers stick to the five-minute alloted time.

Participants have a general personality type. These are certainly people who do not want to be bound by rules as long as they get the job done (in a respectful and proper way). There were three keynote speakers, one woman and two men. (As an aside, it may be funny to note that the woman speaker had a really short hair, a pixie cut, while the men speakers have long, long hair! Truly, you can sense the high premium on freedom to do whatever you want!) This was also the first conference I have attended where there was a code of conduct and that it was made sure to be enforced and reminded at all times. It was made sure that each participant bear in mind respect for all genders, race, age, etc. Diversity and inclusion were emphasized and especially discussed, with talks and panels relegated to this topic alone.

The academic bent of the conference was the distinction of SciPy from the previous data-related conferences I have been to ([Data Day Texas](http://datadaytexas.com/news) and [OSCON](https://conferences.oreilly.com/oscon/oscon-tx)) this year. In a way, this reminded me of my chemistry conference days. However, book give-aways are really great in the computing conferences! I've certainly obtained a collection of free Python books. Free chemistry books? Zero. And all the free books I got were signed in person by the authors. 

Among the things I've learned from the conference are new features in IPython notebook, coding practices such as Github collaboration, machine learning applications not only in medicine but also in (popular) music (from a data scientist who works for [iHeart Radio](https://www.iheart.com/)), manipulation of big data using Python, the use of Python in scientific data collection and analyis in Physics, Material Science, Quantum Chemistry, Computational Chemistry, Biochemistry, Genetics, and Earth Sciences. I think my favorite talk was the last keynote by a Geology research professor, who discussed his work on [Chicxulub crater](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chicxulub_crater) in Mexico. It reminded me of my earth science class in first year high school, which I really liked. I actually thought about taking geology in college but since it wasn't offered in the local university, I didn't consider it anymore.

Participating in the sprints for [Enthought](https://www.enthought.com/) allowed me to know about Python development for the sciences. The company truly works on "Software for Hard Science". This was my first time ever to see production level codes used in creating software for Enthought clients. It was an intimidating and humbling experience! But from this, I learned Github collaboration, and some advanced-level Python concepts like "adaptation", which I have never heard of before. I only knew of "inheritance" in objects. My motivation for participating in this sprints was to know the company, but by doing this, I missed the opportunity to participate in "fun" sprints (Data for Democracy, pandas, and probably scikit-learn though that might be too advanced for me at this moment). Maybe next year, I can participate in these sprints. Or contribution might even be possible outside sprinting times.

Out of the four days I was at the conference, I was only able to get about three pictures. I will update this post with these soon.