---
layout: post
title: ResistTrumpTuesday Rally at Sen. Cruz's Office
subtitle: ACTION ITEM for Tuesday, Jan 24
tags: [action-alert, front]
---

After the historic protest turnout on Saturday, Republicans are praying
that we don’t follow through with more action. Let’s show ‘em
we’re in this for the long haul!

Republicans in the Senate will be focused this week on pushing through
confirmations of Trump’s cabinet picks, and Indivisible, MoveOn.Org &
Working Families Party are encouraging people to visit their senators’
offices this Tuesday to express their deep concern about the nominees’
qualifications and conflicts of interest.

We’re organizing a trip to Sen. Cruz’s downtown Austin office tomorrow
afternoon to speak with a staffer about Trump’s Cabinet picks. Pick
the one cabinet member you oppose the most, let the staffer know why
you think they are unfit. Ask for the Senator to be notified.

We're meeting at 12:00 PM in front of the 8th St. entrance. You don’t
have to speak if you don’t want to. If you’d prefer to write a letter
to read aloud, that works too!

<b>Where:</b> Sen. Cruz’s office, 300 E 8th, Suite 961, Austin, TX 78701<br />
<b>When:</b> Tuesday Jan 24th at noon<br />

We will have someone taping the event with a cell phone. If you don’t
wish to be on camera please don’t be afraid to let Katie Graham the
Organizer/Camera Operator know. We are hoping to have the press in
attendance, that’s why we need you to come out!

If you can’t make it Tuesday, we encourage you to visit Senator
Cruz’s or Cornyn’s office anytime this week. Remember, they work
for us, and their staffers are paid to listen to constituents!

Facebook users can RSVP here:
[Jan 24 Event RSVP](https://www.facebook.com/events/468206273303177)

If you are not a Facebook user, you can RSVP here:
[RSVP via email](mailto:info@tx10indivisible.us)

Please let us know if you’re coming! Invite friends. Share as widely as possible.
Let’s make our voices heard!

**3:30pm Update:** A [press release](http://www.indivisibleaustin.com/2017/01/23/local-constituents-in-austin-to-hold-resisttrumptuesday-rally-to-oppose-trumps-corrupt-cabinet-and-resist-trumps-agenda-at-noon-january-24/) has been issued for the event.

