---
layout: post
title: Act now to oppose ACA "Repeal and Ignore"
subtitle: CALL TO ACTION for Thursday, Jan 12
tags: [action-alert]
---

**ACT TODAY** and ask Rep. McCaul to oppose ACA "Repeal and Ignore"

The repeal of the Affordable Care Act has been set in motion and goes to the House for voting as soon as Friday.

If ACA is repealed without replacement, 34,500 people in District 10 will lose their Health Insurance. And many thousands more will lose the important protections that the Affordable Care Act gives to every single person who has health insurance including coverage for pre-existing conditions, no lifetime limits or annual limits on care, maternity care, parity for mental health care, and many other benefits that became law when the Affordable Care Act was passed. All of these will go away with repeal.

Time to call our congressmen Mike McCaul and tell his office how you feel.

If you are in Austin and can show up in person. Even better! Showing up in person is what Indivisible is all about!

More info: [Senate Takes Major Step Toward Repealing Health Care Law](https://www.nytimes.com/2017/01/12/us/politics/health-care-congress-vote-a-rama.html)


### Sample Script

> Good Morning, My name is _____ and I am a constituent of Mike McCaul’s from (City/town/Zip code) I care passionately about the Affordable Care Act and advise the Congressman to vote to continue the life saving program. Almost 35,000 people in District 10 will lose Health Insurance if ACA is repealed, and EVERY SINGLE PERSON with health insurance will lose the important protections the ACA provides [including many of my family and friends.] If McCaul votes against the act, they will not have my vote in the upcoming election. Thank you.


### Contact Info

Congressman Michael McCaul<br />
<br />
9009 Mountain Ridge Drive<br />
Austin Building, Suite 230<br />
Austin, TX 78759<br />
<br />
phone: 512-473-2357<br />
fax: 512-473-0514<br />
<br />
hours: M-F 9-5:30pm<br />

