---
layout: post
title: Friday Update - thank you!
subtitle: and not a "Call to Action" (for a change)
---

Thank you members of TX-10 Indivisible for all your calls and comments
and engagement this week! Between the confirmation hearings, ethics
issues, ACA repeal and Russian espionage, it’s been a wild 7 days
in Washington, but you’ve made sure our representatives know we’re
keeping a close eye on them. There’s been some victories in there, too,
with Republicans backing off their proposed gutting of the independent
ethics committee, and delaying multiple confirmation hearings so ethics
investigations could be completed. These are results that are directly
impacted by our representatives hearing from you.

Meanwhile, the membership of our [Facebook
group](https://www.facebook.com/groups/381205945554014/) has more than
tripled to over 450 people, with more joining everyday! We’ve had to
restrict posting to admins for now so that Calls to Action don’t get
drowned out. If they’re not appearing automatically in your feed, we
encourage you to turn up notifications by clicking “Notifications”
in the page banner and setting to “All posts.” We promise to only
post Calls to Action and the occasional curated link. We won’t abuse
your feed or attention.

Speaking of which, you may be wondering if Calls to Action will always be
as frequent as they’ve been this week—definitely not! The Republican
agenda is crammed full right now, so there’s a lot to respond to. But
we expect things to slow down shortly after Inauguration Day. Thanks
for your stamina, and let’s keep it up!

If you’d like to volunteer with TX-10 Indivisible, get
involved in the planning, or just chat with fellow resisters,
request an invitation to our Slack discussion board. Just email
[info@tx10indivisible.us](mailto:info@tx10indivisible.us), request Slack
access, and briefly mention why you are requesting to join.

Speaking of which, if you haven’t called [Rep. McCaul about the repeal
of the ACA](/2017-01-13-article01), the House is scheduled to vote on it sometime **today**
(Friday the 13th), so make that call as early as you can!


