---
layout: post
title: A note for all of us who feel defeated after Sessions
tags: []
---

_On Wednesday night, the [Indivisible Team](https://www.indivisibleguide.com/) posted the following note [to their Facebook page](https://www.facebook.com/indivisibleguide/posts/219055018558375) in response to the confirmation of Jeff Sessions as Attorney General._

This is the long game. We are going to lose a lot. We are going to get good at losing. We are going to lose cabinet votes for terrible nominees. We are going to lose bills that are offensive and appalling. But while we are losing, something else is going to happen. We are going to keep raising our voices and slowly our representatives are going to start listening to us. We've seen it happen.

It won't happen because of next week's call to action. It'll happen over months, where you keep showing up, regularly. Then, we are going to start winning. It'll sneak up on us. We won't understand why we are winning. But it starts with losing in a particular way -- where we raise our voices and call it out when we aren't listened to, where we get close but not quite there.

The first 100 days of a President's term are the honeymoon period, the moment when he's most likely to get his agenda enacted. Trump is spending his first 100 days mired in controversy, scandal, and backbiting - and that's because you haven't for a moment let anyone in Washington forget just how unpopular he is.

Every time we change the narrative, every time we delay, every time there's a newspaper story about a member of Congress avoiding his or her constituents, that's a win. And it matters.

You have already made history. You've delayed the confirmation of Trump's cabinet picks longer than any time in recent history. You stopped the gutting on the congressional ethics office. You've made Republicans so nervous about the repeal of the Affordable Care Act that it's been pushed further and further down the road. You caused an uproar of historic proportions over Trump's Muslim ban and saved lives and reunited families in the process. You've inspired people who have never before taken action to make their voices heard and learn how to do things like check how their members of Congress voted and call them out for it.

We'll never even know about some of the victories - because those will be the fights that this Administration considered starting and then realized it couldn't win.

We're in this together. Every visit. Every call. Every loss. Every win. That's just what friends do.

#StandIndivisible
