---
layout: post
title: Act now to block Jeff Sessions' appointment as Attorney General
subtitle: ACTION ITEM for Tuesday, Jan 10
tags: [action-alert]
---

**Call** Senators Cornyn and Cruz and ask them to block Jeff Sessions' appointment as Attorney General.

On Tuesday Jan. 10th, the Senate Judiciary Committee begins confirmation hearings for Sen. Jeff Sessions, Trump’s pick for Attorney General. Sessions' views on law and justice are so far outside the mainstream that in 1986, the Senate rejected his nomination to a federal judgeship due to charges of racism from former colleagues. It’s hard to imagine a more dangerous leader for a department that will oversee questions of immigration, criminal justice reform, and civil rights. What’s more, he has failed to turn over many documents the Senate Judiciary Committee has specifically asked for to get a clear picture of his views on the issues he may soon preside over.

More information: [Is Sessions, Trump's Attorney General Pick, Trying to Paper Over His Record?](http://www.npr.org/2016/12/13/505432118/is-sessions-trumps-attorney-general-pick-trying-to-paper-over-his-record)

### Sample Script

> Hello, my name is ______________. I am a constituent of Sen. [Cornyn or Cruz] and I am calling to voice my concerns about the selection of Sen. Jeff Sessions as Attorney General. Sessions has a long record of racial insensitivity, bias against immigrants, disregard for the rule of law and hostility to the protection of civil rights that makes him unfit to serve as the attorney general of the United States. I urge you to block his appointment to the Justice Department. Thank you.

### Contact Info

Sen. John Cornyn

* Central Texas office: (512) 469-6034
* Washington DC office: (202) 224-2934

Sen. Ted Cruz

* Central Texas office: (512) 916-5834
* Washington, DC office: (202) 224-5922

Best to call during normal business hours to increase chances of speaking directly to a staffer. If phones are busy try again shortly. If you get voicemail you can leave a message, but it's always better to talk to a staffer.

