
---
layout: post
title: Research Paper
subtitle: Phone vs. Tangible in Museums: A Comparative Study
gh-repo: samzgrunebaum/samzgrunebaum.github.io
gh-badge: [star, fork, follow]
tags: [research,museum technology,HCI]
---

### Research Paper

This paper aims to elucidate the different reactions museum visitors have to the functionality and aesthetics of interacting with multimedia content in a museum using a mobile phone app vs. tangible manipulation in the form of “smart cards” and “smart replicas”. The study examined the responses of 76 participants in an art exhibition interacting with multimedia content through these modes as well as gauging expectations and reactions to when a museum offers an app. The paper begins by examining various work related to digital technology and its use in museums. The most relevant topics to the research done by the authors are museums embracing mobile phones and the services they can provide through them as well as the assumption that young people respond to mobile interaction while older people prefer in person guiding. The authors go on to discuss tangible interactions in museums and describe them as “bespoke pieces to be experienced as part of a traditional exhibition” (page 2). The section on tangible interactions states that they appear to engage with visitors on a deeper level in a way that is “highly evocative.” The comparative study performed was designed to understand the impact of different interaction modes on the visit – the research is described as limited but is stated to suggest that devices affect visitor behavior and interaction with the museum. The experiment was designed so that each participant experienced all three interaction modes and was told to indicate their most and least preferred interaction modes. It was carried out during the museum opening hours in a natural situation where participants could move freely throughout the exhibition with different modes of interaction. The mobile phone was both the most liked and the least liked option with the smart replica being more heavily liked in relation to the number of people who disliked it. The participants’ reactions were measured according to “focus of attention” and “body posture”. The authors had a variety of ambiguous conclusions related to questions of how visitors respond to technology in museums and to possible digital strategies for museums. They expressed optimism about the notion of “Bring Your Own Device” while also stating that the effect of such an approach may be limited and that mobile phones may not be the preferred option for visitors. Overall, the study showed that interaction modes had a limited effect on visiting behavior and preferences and instead highlighted the importance of personal attitude and visiting style.
	
I object to their methodology in that they did not use an iterative approach. I think it is highly important in questions of human-computer interaction to modify one’s approach based on initial feedback from participants and to continually reform the experiment to match the reactions and needs of actual visitors in a museum context. However, I also found the paper very helpful in its exploration of different modes of interaction – when working on SWCMA with my group, we generally focused on the types of tasks accomplished rather than the way that people interact with our information. I think it would have been useful to consider whether people want to use phones or bespoke museum technology and whether they want to bring their own technology or borrow something from the museum. Overall, I think that the findings in this paper are useful but ambiguous and that the methodology of the study could be improved upon by taking a more iterative approach that builds on participant reactions.
