---
layout: post
title: Teaching Data Science using project-based courses in the UBC Master of Data Science program
---

## Introduction

Data Science is the act of extracting value from data through reproducible and auditable processes. This definition is intentionally broad such that it may encompasses all the different things Data Scientists do to gain insights and knowledge from data, and the things that need to be done can be very different depending on the application of knowledge or insights needed to be garnered from the data. How can we teach aspiring Data Scientists "what things need to be done" to answer their particular data question? Typical lecture and lab based courses are one way to give prescribed and well-defined examples, and at the beginning of a Data Science education these are very necessary. However, only ever being exposed to prescribed and well-defined problem sets hardly prepares the aspiring data scientist for real world data science work in either industry or the research lab, where projects are more like snowflakes than cookies (Figure 1). Project-based courses where data is messy, the task is not perfectly defined and people are required to collaborate and work together to extract value from the data is a more real-world-like setting where students have the opportunity to have both successes and failures across many more axes of Data Science than are typically available in a focused lecture/lab-based course. The student's learning experiences in these courses are rich and memorable, making this a key part of any wholistic Data Science curriculum.

The project-based Data Science courses that will be used as tangible data points for the discussion herein exist as part of the University of British Columbia (UBC)'s Master of Data Science (MDS) program. This program is an intensive 10-month-long program whose vision is to teach the creative, responsible, and reproducible practice of Data Science. The program consists of 8 months of 24 short, 1-credit courses (4 taken concurrently in 4 weeks blocks) and a two-month-long capstone project. A more detailed description of the program can be found [here](https://ubc-mds.github.io/about/), and background information on its design and history [here](https://ubc-mds.github.io/2019-02-19-designing-mds/).

In the first year of the MDS program the only project-based course that was offered was the two-month-long capstone project at the end of the program ([course description](https://ubc-mds.github.io/capstone/about/) and [public version of the course](https://github.com/UBC-MDS/DSCI_591_capstone-proj)), all other courses used a standard format which consisted of: eight 90 minute lectures,  four two hour labs (each with an assignments worth 12.5% of the students’ grade) and two quizzes (each worth 25% of the students’ grade). This standard format worked very well for many courses, particularly for the introductory courses and the courses deeply focused on a particular area of statistics, machine learning or computer programming. However, this format did not fare well with courses that required more writing, critical thinking and integration of knowledge from other (previously taken) Data Science courses.

Specifically, using student feedback (from the MDS interim and year-end surveys, student block-representative reports and informal discussions with Alumni) we identified that at least 4 courses would benefit from an alternative format and be suitable as project-based courses. In addition to improving these four courses individually, these changes also meant that our students would be able to gain experience in a project-based setting four times before embarking on their final capstone project. Thus for the last two years we have run these 4 project-based courses (in addition to the capstone project) and have iteratively refined what, for us, constitutes a successful project course in Data Science. For the remainder of this article we will share what our project-based courses look like (both the short one credit, as well as the final capstone project) and discuss challenges that we faced in making these courses successful as well as discuss what solutions we have arrived at to solve some of these challenges.

## Project-based course design & logistics

The one-credit project-based courses in the MDS program all follow the same general operational and pedagogical structure. Similar to the standard format the course still have eight 90 minute lectures, however the four two hour labs are not divided into separable lab assessments. Instead they are utilized for students to be able to work on the project proposal and milestones - each building on the previous, responding to feedback received from the instructional team (and peers, see the next point). In particular in the third lab, students work through a face-to-face peer review session, after which they provide their constructive feedback to other groups by opening GitHub issues in the other groups GitHub repositories.

All project-based courses are group projects in MDS of 3-4 students, where we students are randomly assigned to a different group for each course. For the project topic, students are given free reign to choose a project topic that fits within the constraints of the course's learning objectives and the groups' pre-requisite knowledge (i.e., what has been covered so far in the MDS program). We encourage practice of version control, practice of open source development and building of their public portfolio. All projects are developed openly on GitHub.com (feedback is also given to students there as filed issues), communication between teammates relevant to the project is required to be done via GitHub issues, and students are required to submit project contributions via pull requests that are reviewed and accepted by another teammate. For an example of a one-credit project-based courses in the MDS program please see [the DSCI 522: Data Science Workflows course's public GitHub repository](https://github.com/UBC-MDS/DSCI_522_dsci-workflows)

## The project-based courses in the Master of Data Science program

Almost all Data Science courses could benefit from having a project component, but only some fit the model where the entire course assessment is a project (i.e., there are no other graded homework questions or quizzes/exams). In the Master of Data Science program we have 5 such courses, which we list below and provide a summary description of the project for each course. 

#### 1.[DSCI 522 - Data Science Workflows](https://github.com/UBC-MDS/DSCI_522_dsci-workflows)
Here the project involves a complete data analysis, from data import to communication of results, with emphasis on reproducibility and transparency. Students are asked to identify a data set, question and hypothesis for that analysis. To complete the analysis they write 4-5 R and Python scripts, as well as a reproducible report (in Jupyter or R Markdown) whose running they automate via a data analysis pipeline written in GNU Make. Software and environmental dependencies are made shippable and shareable via containerization with Docker. All development is done using version control using Git & GitHub.

#### 2. [DSCI 532 - Data Visualization II](https://github.com/UBC-MDS/DSCI_532_viz-2)
Here the project involves creating an interactive data visualization app. Students are asked to identify a data set, and use a reproducible interactive data visualization tool (e.g., R Shiny or Plotly Dash) to create and deploy an interactive dashboard to be used for exploratory data analysis purposes. Emphasis in this project is placed on iteratative improvements of the interactive dashboard based upon user feedback. 

#### 3. [DSCI 524 - Collaborative Software Development](https://github.com/UBC-MDS/DSCI_524_collab-sw-dev)
Here the project involves developing a Python and a R software package. The two packages should do essentially the same thing (they make one in each language so that can learn how to do both, and learn to generalize about software pacakges) and the students are guided to choose the package topic from one of the following themes:  1) functions that are entirely new to the R or Python ecosystem, 2) improve upon pre-existing functions in either language or 3) re-implement existing code/functions that you wish to deepen your understanding of (e.g., write a linear regression package from scratch). Emphasis is placed on robust software engineering (e.g., continuous integration testing, documentation, licensing) and collaboration (e.g., advanced version control control).

#### 4. [DSCI 554 - Experimentation and Causal Inference](https://github.com/UBC-MDS/DSCI_554_exper-causal-inf)
Here the project involves developing and analyzing observational data from a survey to try to answer a question the students are interested in. The aim of the survey is to try to answer one specific question, and thus it needs to ask additional questions to indentify confounders that will help make the analysis of the survey as causal as possible. Emphasis on survey design is placed to protect individual survey respondent's privacy. The students present the findings from the survey as a reproducible report (in Jupyter or R Markdown). Emphasis is placed on the survey data analysis in regards to statistical correctness, reproducibility and transparency. 

#### 5. [DSCI 525 - Web and Cloud Computing](https://github.com/UBC-MDS/DSCI_525_web-cloud-comp)
Here the project involves training a machine learning project on a large data set in the cloud using an elastic computing service (e.g., Amazon's EC2) and Apache Spark, as well as building and deploying the trained model as REST API (e.g., using Flask) for predictions in production. Emphasis in this project is placed on shippable environments for remote computing (e.g., Docker), computing at scale and front-end creation for data products. *Note - the project version of this course is currently in development and will be first offered in MDS in 2021.*

## Challenges of running project-based courses

From running 8 project-based Data Science courses over 2 years we have run into our fair share of challenges. Through student feedback, consultation with other educators and trial and error we have arrived at solutions to several of these. Below we discuss the 5 greatest challenges we have faced in these courses and present solutions that have worked for us in the MDS program.

#### 1. Putting concepts learned in lecture into practice
There is a sizable leap in cognition required to take a concept learned in a controlled class setting to application of that concept in an uncontroled and realistic setting, such as in a project. For example, in [DSCI 522 - Data Science Workflows](https://github.com/UBC-MDS/DSCI_522_dsci-workflows) students learn about automating analysis pipelines using build tools, such as GNU Make. With this topic, students learn both a new concepts (stitching scripts together with a pipeline, dependency chains and automation) as well as a new tool to put those concepts into practice (e.g., GNU Make). For many students the jump from an explanation of this concept and demo of this tool in lecture does not sufficiently prepare them to easily? build an automated data analysis pipeline in a project setting that differs from the example shown in class, and where there are mutliple potentially correct solutions and way to arrive at the solutions. 

One solution we have come to help students make this leap is the use of guided toy/contained examples ([e.g., starting point for automated data analysis pipelines toy example](https://github.com/ttimbers/data_analysis_pipeline_eg/tree/v1.3)) that students work through in lecture after learning more geerally about the concept and/or tool. After the class, the instructor then provides the students with the working solution ([e.g., solution for automated data analysis pipelines toy example](https://github.com/ttimbers/data_analysis_pipeline_eg/tree/v3.0)) in case the students were not able to get the toy/contained example up and running in the allotted time. We think that this active learning approach where the students are encouraged and expected to get a small working example of the thing does three things, 1. reinforces the concepts presented in-class, 2. gives them practice and confidence applying the concepts and tools and 3. gives them a working example they can refer back too. 

*Something about chunking - breaking a project into discrete chunks like this that they can practice, lets the students learn the chunks, and then use the project to reinforce these things, as well learn how to put the differnet chunks together (less cognitively overwhelming than trying to learn and do everything at once in a project).*

#### 2. Practice doing something more than once, and building a generalization of that concept/thing
A related, but still separable challenge of teaching Data Science using a project-based course format is to give the students repeated practice and exposure to tasks needed to complete the project. For example, in a project where students are required to write a script that downloads data from the web, once the script is written, this task doesn't have to be done again, and as a consequence without intentional course design, there could easily be is no additional practice or reinforcement of this part of doing a data analysis.

In lecture toy-examples, as described above, are one possible solution. Beyond this we have found some other solutions that have also helped. One is that we run all our projects as group projects and use version control with Git & GitHub, and we require students to send code to the project GitHub repository via pull requests that must be reviewed and accepted by someone else. This means that in a group project, even if only one person writes the code, others in the group who didn't at least have to review code written for that purpose. Another solution we have implemented is that the third in-lab session of these courses is a presentation of code and peer review session. DESCRIBE THIS SESSION. This is again, another opportunity where students are exposed to key concepts and tools covered in the project and are required to thoughtfully consider and critique how others have applied these concepts and tools in their data analysis projects.

#### 3. Aligning lecture topics with project timeline
Another challenge that we have come across in teaching Data Science via project courses is timing the lecture topics so that students have learned the necessary concepts and skills in time to put them into practice when needed for their project. To help overcome this challenge we have used reverse/backwards course design for our project-based courses. To do this we first write a description and rubric for the final project that we want the students to complete. Following teaching best practices, it is important that everything we want the students to learn in the course should be assessed (this acts as a clear signal to students that these topics are important), and so for this kind of course, all of these things need to be explicitly required as part of the project. Next we work backwards, identifying project milestones for the project that seem like sensible breakpoints where we ask the students to hand the project in for formative feedback. Once this roadmap is in place, we can finally start to plan the lecture topics for the course, mapping the lecture content to what the students need to know for each milestone of the project. 


#### 4. Getting people to work well together 
One of the most important aspects and challenges of group projects is getting people to collaborate and work well together. In our courses we assign students to different groups for each project to give them much practice in working with many different people in a lower stakes environment (compared to on the job) and to mirror the real work world where people rarely get to choose their co-workers. To facilitate and help our students collaborate effectively with eachother on the projects in the assigned groups we employ five strategies: 

1. We now begin the first group-work session of the course with an exercise to have the groups collaboratively create a group work contract. 

2. We require that they include a code of conduct and contributors documents in their project repositories to communicate to eachother, and the outside world, what is acceptable behaviour when contributing and how people are expected to contribute to the document.

3. We try to create motivation for all members to contribute to the project by having the project be "real" enough to be part of their Data Science portfolio to help them with their job search. Additionally, we have them develop in the public under the UBC-MDS Github organization so that everyone ends up with the same portfolio piece to share and it is clear to the outside world who the key developers/contributors were (as evidenced by the contributors tab on their GitHub repository).

4. We instruct students to have all their project-related communication happen via GitHub issues. This requirement is put in place so that communications can be seen by the whole group (as well as the instructional team).

5. We assign part of the students grade to team work (20% of the project). This sends a strong signal to the students that working well with their project members is an important and critical part of the success of their project. To assess each students' team work we review the project's GitHub history to evaluate how much each member contributed to the project and have all the students fill out out [team work document](https://github.com/UBC-MDS/DSCI_591_capstone-proj/blob/master/deliverables/team_work/team_work.pdf). In this document they have to rate how well each member of the team, including themselves, did on preparation, participation and communication, helped the group excel as well as cooperation. In that form, we also ask the students to state the roles of each of the group members in the project, as well discuss what went well and what went poorly during their team project experience. By combining the GitHub history and the team work documents we can get a clear picture of how each person contributed to the project and assign a fair grade to them based on their team work performance. 

*Add attribution to where ideas and inspiration for our team work document came from - Bruce Dunham & Sci 300?, Will Welch*

#### 5. Giving sufficient and timely feedback and grades
Formative feedback can be extremely useful during learning, especially in refining and improving projects but this only works if the feedback is given in a timely enough manner such that it can be used to improve the product. Feedback too late is often not read by some students, or not deeply reflected on, as they have moved onto other tasks and have no immediate use for it. The challenge to timely feedback in a project course is several-fold and includes each project being its own individual snowflake, and thus it takes extra time for each project the TA or Instructor reviews to understand the project to a deep enough level before helpful feedback can be given. Another challenge is that projects are more complex than a typical homework assignment and the TA or Instructor can be easily tempted to review each aspect of the project in detail and give too much feedback (more than the student's could possibly digest). In addition to this, our program's fast pace and size adds additional pressures and challenges on giving timely feedback.

There are three key things we have learned to do to help us meet this challenge. First, we give our students and TA's clear rubrics and expectations for each project milestone. In doing this we help signal to the TAs what their focus should be on in regards to giving feedback for each milestone. We also ask the TAs to limit their feedback to 3-5 key points that map onto the rubrics and expectations for each project milestone. We do this because, as stated earlier, too much feedback can be overwhelming and lose its usefullness to the students. Additionally, equal but timely feedback to all is better than lengthy feedback that is unevenly distributed over time across groups.

To help deal with the different projects and the time it takes the TA or Instructor to become familiar with them before grading, we assign each reviewer to the same projects for each milestone (as well as the final grading/feedback of the project). In doing this we save some activation time for each round of feedback and we get the added bonus where the students build a mentor-like relationship with the TA or Instructor giving feedback. There is a potential problem with this approach in that the feedback and grading might not end up being even across groups. Thus to mitigate this all the TAs and Instructors involved with the course work together do a round of callibration review and grading for each milestone by all reviewing the same 3-4 projects and discussing their feedback and grades to find common ground.

Finally, as discussed earlier in this article, we also run peer feedback sessions which also help each project receive timely feedback. Additionally, the students gain valuable knowledge and insight into other ways the project could be done by playing the reviewer role in these peer review sessions. 

## Discussion

The challenges and the solutions that we have encountered and implemented in our Data Science project-based courses has led to improved student learning (as observed by what students are capable of doing in their final Data Science Capstone project at the end of the program). One of the biggest improvements we observed between the Capstone projects comparing the year where we had no project-based courses and the following years where we did was the decrease in technical debt at the end of the Capstone project. In particular, the Capstone projects in the years where we have run the project-based courses, have been much easier for new users (e.g., our Capstone industry, govenment or academic partners) to start using and extending the projects. In addition to the Instructional team's observed improvements in student performance, we have also observed improved student satisfaction and perceived value from these course when run as project-based courses as opposed to when we ran them as traditional lecture/lab-based courses (as evidenced by student course evaluations, surveys and anectdotal discussions with students and alumni).

Although running several of our Master of Data Science courses as project-based courses has led to Instructor observed and student perceived improvements in performing Data Science projects there are some caveats to consider before implementing project-based Data Science courese in the manner as we describe herein. The most significant being that before our students engage in their first Data Science project-based course they have had formal instruction, assessment and repeated practice using version control via Git and GitHub (this is how we require students to submit all their homework in our program). Thus, when our students arrive at the project courses in their program, using version control is less of a cognitive burden and they can relatively easily utilize that tool for collaborative purposes while focusing on learning the concepts and tools of focus that are new in the project course. Thus, our approach might need to be adapted if one desires to run projects for a more introductory Data Science learners. Alternative collaboration platforms that might work in such a situation are Google's Colaboratory, Kaggle kernals or RStudio's Server Pro. These tools could be combined with some simple GitHub features such as issues for collaborative communication and use the GitHub website upload tool to upload a version of the project for peer review session and the final submission.

A future directions that we plan to explore for our project based course in the upcoming year to improve collaboration is to teach students about more advanced GitHub repository settings such as master branch protection. Such a feature prevents any collaborator from pushing directly to the master branch of a GitHub repository, forcing a pull request to be sent (and thus ensuring all members of the team are aware of changes being proposed or made). In the past in our courses, we have told students that they should be contributing to the projects via pull requests that their teammates are to review, however this instruction is not always followed and thus requiring master branch protection on the repo might help reinforce this workflow further.

## Conclusion

From our experience with the University of British Columbia's Master of Data Science program we have come to the opinion that project-based courses are necessary for a well-rounded Data Science education. We believe this is because it gives the students to work in a more real-life situation where the "right" answer is less well defined, collaboration is required and many axes of Data Science are brought together. We also believe that students should have the opportunity to do more than 1 project in their Data Science program so that they get to repeatedly practice an entire project from beginning to end in a lower stakes environment before they are required to do so on the job. 
