---
layout: post
title: Seminar - Yunwei Yu
subtitle: Introduction to the Study of Gamma Ray Burst Neutron Stars cores in the solar neighborhood

#cover-img: /assets/img/path.jpg
tags: [seminar, event, blog, Yunwei-Yu]
---

<style>
body {
text-align: justify}
</style>

Location: Sun Room on the 4th Floor of the New Physics Building

Meeting time: 2020/9/18 9:00-10:30 (CST)


## Speaker: Yunwei Yu

## Introduction to the Study of Gamma Ray Burst Neutron Stars cores in the solar neighborhood

### Yunwei Yu Seminar

______________________________

## Abstract

Gamma-ray bursts are the most important explosion phenomenon in the universe, and their explosion mechanism and energy source are an important exploration target of astronomy research. In fact, their short burst time scale and huge burst energy have been closely linked to the study of dense celestial bodies, especially neutron stars, since their discovery. I will briefly introduce the different research phases experienced by the Gamma Burst Neutron Star Institute and show the progress of people's understanding. Especially since entering the era of gravitational wave astronomy, it is possible that these neutron stars may even be related to the current very popular fast radio burst phenomenon.
______________________________

## Bio

Yu Yunwei, "Guzi Scholar" Professor, Doctoral Supervisor, and Deputy Dean of the School of Physics and Technology, Central China Normal University. Graduated from Central China Normal University with a PhD in 2009. Visiting study at Nanjing University from 2006 to 2009. From 2009 to 2011, he worked as a military postdoctoral fellow at the University of Hong Kong. Mainly in military high-energy astrophysics research, he has published more than 60 SCI papers in the fields of gamma-ray bursts, gravitational wave electromagnetic counterparts, and fast radio bursts. He has hosted 4 National Natural Science Foundation projects. In 2011, he was awarded the National Excellent Doctoral Dissertation Award. In 2013, he was selected into the New Century Excellent Talents Program of the Ministry of Education. In 2018, he was awarded the National Outstanding Youth Fund.

Everyone is welcome to participate!
