---
layout: post
title: "Reading List - 2019"
tags: [books]
readtime: true
---

As a bit of a fervent reader, I try to set a goal each year for the number of books I'd like to read. For the past 5 or 6 years the types of books that made up my reading lists were selected with the intention of expanding my technical acumen. I've always enjoyed fiction, (especially mysteries -- I'm English after-all), but they've recently taken a back seat to the deeply technical material.

With my transition away from holding a purely technical role to a role more focussed on architecture and strategy, I've tried to re-centre the types of books devoting my attention to. In addition, having a toddler at home gives you _a bit_ less free time which you can dedicate to reading; therefore, I have an increased need to be purposeful with the types of material I pick up. The intention of my _more balanced_ reading list is to broaden my horizons and round out my skill-set with topics like business, leadership, along with some more fiction.

One of the things I've learned as a new parent is that you have to take every opportunity, however small, to be productive, so some of these books I consumed as an audiobook -- the morning commute can be great way to start the day productively.

At the recommendation of a close friend, I've decided to document the books I've read within the last year. My very modest goal for 2019 was to simply complete one book per month, or twelve books total, so the list is as follows:

* **A Crown of Swords** -- Robert Jordan
* **Man's Search for Meaning** -- Viktor E. Frankl
* **Implementing World Class IT Strategy** -- Peter A. High
* **Enterprise Architecture as Strategy: Creating a Foundation for Business Execution** -- Jeanne W. Ross, * Peter Weill, David Robertson
* **Extreme Ownership** -- Jocko Willink, Leif Babin
* **Getting Things Done: The Art of Stress-Free Productivity** -- David Allen
* **Endurance: Shackleton's Incredible Voyage** -- Alfred Lansing
* **The Path of Daggers** -- Robert Jordan
* **Ahead in the Cloud: Best Practices for Navigating the Future of Enterprise IT** -- Stephen Orban
* **Hit Refresh** -- Satya Nadella
* **37 Things One Architect Knows About IT Transformation** -- Gregor Hohpe
* **Crossroads of Twilight** -- Robert Jordan
* **Blood Lines** -- Angela Marsons