---
layout: post
title: Seminar - Xinwen Shu (Anhui Normal University)
subtitle: Supermassive (double) black hole tidal disintegration event


#cover-img: /assets/img/path.jpg
tags: [seminar, event, blog, Xinwen-Shu, Huazhong-University]
---

<style>
body {
text-align: justify}
</style>

Location: Sunshine Room on the 4th floor
Meeting time: 2020/12/15 10:00-12:00 (CST)

https://meeting.tencent.com/s/ufB7B3ZCRTST
Conference ID: 636 825 074
Dial based on your location
+8675536550000 ext (Mainland China)
+85230018898 transfer (Hong Kong, China)

## Speaker: Xinwen Shu (Huazhong University of Science and Technology)

## Supermassive (double) black hole tidal disintegration event

### Xinwen Shu Seminar

______________________________

## Abstract

The co-evolution of galaxies and black holes implies that there is a black hole in the center of almost every massive galaxy. According to the existing evolutionary theory of hierarchical clustered galaxies, there should be a large number of supermassive double black hole systems in the universe. However, even after more than 30 years of research, astronomers have found supermassive double black holes in only a few active galaxies. This report will introduce how to use the tidal tearing star event to detect and study the dormant black hole and its gas environment in the quiet galaxy that accounts for the majority of the universe. At the same time, it will report on the latest research progress in this field, including the discovery of supermassive dormant double black holes that swallow stars.
______________________________

## Bio

He graduated from the University of Science and Technology of China in 2010.
2010.6-2013.6, postdoctoral fellow and associate researcher of University of Science and Technology of China.
2013.6-2015.3 Postdoctoral fellow at the French Atomic Energy Center (CEA).
2015.3-now Professor of Anhui Normal University
In 2018, he was awarded the Excellent Youth Fund Project of the National Natural Science Foundation of China.
Mainly engaged in the research of AGN and high-redshift galaxies. He has published more than 70 papers, which have been cited more than 2,400 times by peers. SCI H-index 21.
