---
layout: post
title: Seminar - Dr. Yan Zhen (Shanghai Astronomical Observatory)
subtitle: Accretion-Ejection in the Mini-Outbursts of Black Hole X-ray Transient


#cover-img: /assets/img/path.jpg
tags: [seminar, event, blog, Yan-Zhen, Shanghai-Astronomical-Observatory]
---

<style>
body {
text-align: justify}
</style>

Location: Tencent Conference 157 891 493

[Tencent Link](https://meeting.tencent.com/s/LpOtzCWiwzaX)

Meeting time: 2020/10/16 10:00-11:30 (CST)


## Speaker: Dr. Yan Zhen (Shanghai Astronomical Observatory)

## Parity violation in gravity and its effects on solar system experiments and astrophysical observations

### Yan Zhen Seminar

______________________________

## Abstract

Symmetry is a central topic in modern fundamental physics, both in quantum physics and relativity. For gravitational interaction, the Lorentz and parity symmetry are two fundamental symmetry in GR. However, the violation of both the Lorentz and parity symmetry can arise from a lot of quantum theories of gravity, including string theory, loop quantum gravity, and Horava-Lifshitz gravity. Thus, it is of great importance to test the symmetry of gravity in experiments and observations. In this talk, we will focus on the violation of the parity symmetry in gravity. I will briefly review several parity violating gravities and their possible implications in the solar system experiments and astrophysical observations. In addition, I will also discuss our recent works on testing the parity violation in gravity by using GWs.
______________________________

## Bio

Associate researcher, graduated from Shanghai Observatory in 2011. Main research fields: Multi-band observation of compact celestial bodies and related accretion and jet physics.