---
layout: post
title: Seminar - Cosimo Bambi (Fudan University)
subtitle: Testing General Relativity with black hole X-ray data -- recent progress and future developments


#cover-img: /assets/img/path.jpg
tags: [seminar, event, blog, Cosimo-Bambi, Fudan-University]
---

<style>
body {
text-align: justify}
</style>

Location: Multifunctional Hall on the 5th floor
Meeting time: 2021/05/25 14:00-15:00 (CST)

## Speaker: Cosimo Bambi (Fudan University)

## Testing General Relativity with black hole X-ray data -- recent progress and future developments

### Cosimo Bambi

______________________________

## Abstract

Testing General Relativity with black hole X-ray data: recent progress and future developments Brief report: The theory of General Relativity has successfully passed a large number of observational tests. The theory has been extensively tested in the weak-field regime with experiments in the Solar System and observations of binary pulsars. The past five years have seen significant advancements in the study of the strong-field regime, which can now be tested with gravitational waves, X-ray data, and mm Very Long Baseline Interferometry observations . In my talk, I will summarize the state-of-the-art of the tests of General Relativity with black hole X-ray data, discussing its recent progress and future developments.
______________________________

## Bio

Cosimo Bambi is Professor at the Department of Physics at Fudan University. He received the Laurea degree from Florence University in 2003 and the PhD degree from Ferrara University in 2007. He was appointed as a postdoc at IPMU/The University of Tokyo (Japan) and at LMU Munich (Germany). He joined Fudan University at the end of 2012 under the 1000 Young Talents Program. His main research interests focus on black holes and observational tests of gravity models. He has published more than 150 papers on high impact factor refereed journals as first or corresponding author, he has over 6,000 citations and his h-index is 45. He has received a number of awards, including the 2018 Magnolia Silver Award (上海白玉兰美食奖) for outstanding contributions to Shanghai's development and the Xu Guangqi Prize as the best Italian scholar in China.