---
layout: post
title: Seminar - Longlong Feng (Sun Yat-sen University)
subtitle: Exploring the weakest and the strongest gravity by twisted light


#cover-img: /assets/img/path.jpg
tags: [seminar, event, blog, Longlong-Feng, Sun-Yat-sen-University]
---

<style>
body {
text-align: justify}
</style>

Location: Multifunctional Hall on the 5th floor
Meeting time: 2021/06/01 14:00-15:00 (CST)

## Speaker: Longlong Feng (Sun Yat-sen University)

## Exploring the weakest and the strongest gravity by twisted light

### Longlong Feng

______________________________

## Abstract

Black holes and gravitational waves are two important predictions of classical general  relativity, and are thus the crucial tests of gravitation theories. In a rotating gravitational  field produced by a Kerr black hole, the coupling between the macroscopic rotation of black  hole and the angular momentum of photon can not only distort the orbital motion of the  photon, and also produces an additional nor-integrable phase, leading to the wavefront  distortion of the light coming from near the black hole. On the other hand, it was found that  there is a dipole interaction between twisted lights and gravitational waves, which make  photos undergoing dipole transitions between different orbital-angular-momentum  eigenstates. In this talk, I will discuss these two effects and their astronomical implications, in particular the detection of strongest gravitational fields produced by spinning black holes  and the weakest gravitational fields in gravitational waves.

______________________________

## Bio

Feng Longlong, professor at the School of Physics and Astronomy, Sun Yat-sen University, winner of the Ministry of Finance's "Foreign Talents Program (Chinese Academy of Sciences Hundred Talents Program), National Distinguished Youth Fund", and enjoys the special government allowance of the State Council. Graduated from the Department of Physics, University of Science and Technology of China in 1982. Obtained a Ph.D. in Astronomy from Nanjing University in 1990; once taught at the University of Science and Technology of China and the Purple Mountain Observatory, and has long been engaged in the research of relativistic astrophysics, galactic astronomy and cosmology. Currently, he is in charge of the key project of the National Foundation of China, "Star-forming galaxies" Baryon Cycle and Dynamics Evolution: Analytical and Numerical Simulation Research” and the key research and development project of the Ministry of Science and Technology “Research on Physics and Astronomy of Dense Celestial Wave Sources for Space Gravitational Wave Detection”. 