---
layout: post
title: Seminar - Kai Liao (Wuhan University of Technology)
subtitle: Introduction to the basic principle and application of gravitational lens


#cover-img: /assets/img/path.jpg
tags: [seminar, event, blog, Kai-Liao, Wuhan-University-of-Technology]
---

<style>
body {
text-align: justify}
</style>

Seminar time: 2021/11/23 10:30-12:00 (CST)





## Speaker: Kai Liao(Wuhan University of Technology)

## Introduction to the basic principle and application of gravitational lens

### Kai Liao

______________________________

## Abstract

Gravitational lensing is a phenomenon in which light deflects in a gravitational field. It is described by general relativity and is widely used in the study of astrophysics and cosmology. The most representative system at present is the quasar-elliptical galaxy lens: the distant quasar is split into multiple images by the gravitational field of the foreground elliptical galaxy, and they arrive at the earth in sequence, while the host galaxy is also lensed into a huge arc of light. The undergraduate general report will introduce 1) the basic principles, basic characteristics and classification of gravitational lenses; 2) current astronomical observations and the use of observations to study dark matter and cosmological constants; 3) emerging transient source lens systems.

______________________________

## Bio

Kai Liao is an associate professor in the Department of Physics, School of Science, Wuhan University of Technology. He graduated with a Ph.D. from the Department of Astronomy at Wuhan University of Technology. During this period, he was jointly trained at the University of California, Santa Barbara and Los Angeles. His research areas include cosmology, gravitational lensing and gravitational waves. He presided over one project each from the National Natural Science Foundation of China Youth Fund and a general project, published more than 40 papers in journals such as Nature Communications, PRL, and more than 1,100 citations based on the ADS database. Among them, the first author has 23 papers, cited 550 times, and 103 individual papers.