---
layout: post
title: Seminar - Xi Kang (Zhejiang University)
subtitle: Spatial arrangement of galaxies


#cover-img: /assets/img/path.jpg
tags: [seminar, event, blog, Xi-Kang, Zhejiang-University]
---

<style>
body {
text-align: justify}
</style>

Location: Multifunctional Hall on the 5th floor
Meeting time: 2021/06/16 15:00-16:00 (CST)

## Speaker: Xi Kang (Zhejiang University)

## Spatial arrangement of galaxies

### Xi Kang

______________________________

## Abstract

Observations show that the location and orientation of galaxies in space are not random. From the Milky Way to the neighboring galaxies, from galaxy clusters to the large-scale structure of the universe, the location and spatial orientation of galaxies show a certain degree of correlation. What causes the correlation between the spatial arrangement of galaxies at different scales? How to obtain cosmological information from these correlations? This report will introduce and discuss these issues.

______________________________

## Bio

Xi Kang, Zhejiang University Qiushi Distinguished Professor and Doctoral Supervisor. In 2005, he received a doctorate degree from the Graduate School of the Chinese Academy of Sciences. From 2005 to 2009, he successively engaged in postdoctoral research at Oxford University and Max Planck Institute of Astronomy in Germany. In 2009, he was introduced to the Purple Mountain Observatory in the Hundred Talents Program and served as the chief scientist of the Galaxy Cosmology Group. Joined Zhejiang University in 2019. The research direction is the large-scale structure of the universe and the formation of galaxies. Professor Kangxi was awarded the title of Outstanding Doctoral Tutor of the Chinese Academy of Sciences, and the recipient of the Jiangsu Province and the National Outstanding Youth Fund. In 2019, he was selected as the National Hundred and Thousand Talents Project.