---
layout: post
title: How can robots fall in love?
subtitle: An analysis of gender roles in Wall-E
tags: [wall-e, gender-studies]
comments: true
---

Social construction is the fact that people who interact in a social system inculcate some concepts about appropriate behaviour and they become habituated to it. Thus this is added to their idea of reality. These institutionalised beliefs are dissolved into the essence of society.<sup>1</sup>

The Thomas theorem of Sociology states, “If men define situations as real, they are real in consequences.” This can be aptly applied to this situation where we define money as having real value.<sup>2</sup>

Furthermore, socialisation is the process of becoming part of the society, and being accustomed to its traditions.

### Gender as a Social Construction<sup>3</sup>
We can speak in the same manner about gender. Gender is a purely social construct. Since we are generally socialised into believing that there are only two genders, or by extension, two sexes, we believe it is unnatural when we talk about other types of genders or sexes.

Gender socialisation is the process of learning your gender, following the gender norms of your society and developing your own internal gender identity. Gender norms are the set of rules that a society or culture place on masculine or feminine behaviour, while gender identity is when being masculine or being feminine is internalised as an integral part of your character.

The collection of gender norms in a particular society form the gender roles for people within that society. 

The first step in gender socialisation is sex assignment. When a baby is born, generally their external genitalia is examined. If this does not prove definitive, they move on to the presence or absence of internal sex organs. If this is also not conclusive, they move on to chromosomal testing. But the truth is that there is no simple way to distinguish a male and female baby because there are exceptions everywhere. There are so many different ways in which a person can be intersexed that there is no absolute dimorphism even in biology. Thus we can even say, as Judith Butler does, that even sex is a social construct.

The next step is interactions with family, close friends, teachers, that is, your primary group. This stage includes your first interactions with a peer group of your own age, that is, the first few years of a child’s life. 

Finally comes secondary socialisation when you come into contact with new social groups and have to adjust to different gender norms and roles.

### Gender as a Social Construction in the movie WALL-E
Gender socialisation and internalisation are both important in this context because both protagonists in this movie are robots, WALL-E and EVE. They have no biological features that would allow us to put them under the male/female label. They do not have much of a vocabulary, at most ten words each. However, the heteronormative “romance” was highly emphasized upon during the promotion of the movie.

The most obvious hint as to the gender of the two characters would have to be their names: WALL-E, which sounds like the male name ‘Wally’ and EVE, which itself is a female name. This is similar to the sex assignment in humans.

Since this was an animated movie, the creators could have gone with anything at all, however they picked the usual ‘boy-meets-girl’ formula. Why constrict yourself to anthropomorphism and heteronormativity when you have the freedom to depict anything?

Although it may not be totally the fault of the animators. Humans have a tendency to project human feelings and attributes to other living things or sometimes even inanimate objects. One of those attributes is gender. The gender we perceive another entity determines the way we perceive the entity.<sup>4</sup>

This is probably one of the reasons the animators decided to explicitly gender the two robots and their animations. 

### Gender-typed behaviour of the robots
In CGI-animated films, characters are identified as male mainly by bodily masculinity, sexual masculinity or social masculinity.<sup>5</sup> In the case of WALL-E, his body is masculine in the sense that it is composed of hard corners and lines. He is very dirty and rusty and doesn’t care about his appearance. He does extremely physically taxing labour, ie trash compression. He is sexually masculine because he endeavours to pursue EVE romantically. He would do anything for her. For example, when she is incubating the plant on earth, he protects her from thunderstorms while he himself gets electrocuted. He helps her go in search of the plant even though he doesn’t understand its significance, he just knows that it is important to her. 

WALL-E’s is very emotional. This is unusual, given that he is given masculine traits. He has formed an attachment with a cockroach. He is the one who is more focused on hand holding and other indicators of a romantic relationship. He takes EVE on a tyre-ride through the mud. He is distraught when EVE pulls out the tape from the cassette he loved to watch. This seems to be subversion of gender stereotypes however, towards the end of the movie, WALL-E is the main bringer of change while EVE is merely an accessory.

EVE is round, smooth and white. Her shiny exterior evokes the feeling of soft skin.<sup>6</sup> Her natural movements are graceful<sup>7</sup> and she even hovers above the ground. Her job is clerical; she just has to go around the planet and scan things to see if there are any signs of vegetation. She is even shown as getting increasingly frustrated with her boring, mundane job, which is often the types of jobs women are associated with in the real world. She also giggles, which is a typically feminine behaviour.

However, EVE is aggressive. During the first few minutes of her onscreen time she has already blasted quite a few things out of her way. Although this is usually seen as a masculine trait, this feels more like a ploy to cast her feminine features into greater relief.

There are some other ways in which the movie hinted at the genders of the robots. EVE is easily able to navigate the Axiom, an inner residential space in a manner of speaking. This is reminiscent of the fact that “women are in charge of the house”. Whereas WALL-E is able to navigate the Earth, which, with its rugged landscape and storms, is reminiscent of the wilderness and the outside world, which is a man’s area of expertise.<sup>8</sup>


WALL-E gains his social programming from a recording of the musical ‘Hello Dolly’ which he plays to himself while he works. He picks up a lot of human gestures and mannerisms (shaking hands with the ship’s captain later). He has even picked up the idea of romance from the musical. 

Since he’s been alone for nearly 700 years, he is a little lonely (as evidenced by his friendship with the cockroach and his pong score!). When EVE arrives he is smitten with her although she doesn’t really respond. He follows her around until she finally talks to him.

At the same time a thunderstorm strikes but EVE refuses WALL-E’s attempts to take her to safety in time. She is trapped and scared, but WALL-E takes her to his house. This is where the gender socialisation for EVE begins.

Although we do not see much of the process of WALL-E’s gender socialisation, we are able to see all of EVE’s. WALL-E shows her his collections of knick-knacks. He also shows her the recording of the musical. He tries to copy the dance steps of the male dancers that he watches in the beginning of the movie. He also teaches EVE to dance, but she does it very clumsily. She uncoordinatedly knocks down a lot of his things and also hurls him into the wall as she mangles the steps.Under the tutelage of WALL-E, EVE becomes more and more feminine.<sup>9</sup> This is very similar to Simone de Beauvoir’s statement: A woman is not born one, she becomes one.

These human acts such as dancing and romance are “internally discontinuous”<sup>10</sup> to EVE. This is the first time she has been exposed to these gender and romance constructs and we see her scanning the screen and seeing what it means to be romantic. Here EVE is the “target of socialisation” and WALL-E is the “agent of socialisation” in EVE’s primary socialisation. He is exposing EVE to a variety of sex-typed behaviours in the musical such as the different dances, the type of gestures that human females do. He is also showing her what his idea of romance is: hand-holding, kissing, etc. Since social constructs only get internalised through interactions with the people around us, EVE is internalising these ideas of gender and romance from the musical through WALL-E.<sup>11</sup>

EVE finds a lighter and flicks it on; this in coordination with the scene of the musical playing and the reflection of the fire on WALL-E’s eyes seems to represent his desire for EVE.
Here, WALL-E presents her with a token: a plant in a boot. EVE realises that her directive has been achieved. She incubates the plant in her body and powers down. WALL-E is distraught and confused. He attempts to wake her up by charging her with solar power, which doesn’t work. He tries to connect himself to her as a battery (again selflessness towards object of affection). He protects her from the elements as well as he can. When nothing he tries to revive her works, he tries to recreate some romantic scenes to ease his loneliness by going on a tyre-ride through the mud, engraving their names on a lamp post and trying to hold her hand.<sup>12</sup>

The next time we revisit the idea of the romance between WALL-E and Eve is in the captain's cabin on the Axiom. The captain wants to see what the Earth looks like now, so he asks EVE to play the security footage from when she was powered down after she found the plant.  This is when she sees the selfless love and care of WALL-E and this is also the scene that cements the ideas of gender and romance in her mind. She clasps her hands as if holding someone else's, a way of practicing the role of the romantic female that she is playing. 

“Gender ought not to be construed as a stable identity or locus of agency from which various acts follow; rather, gender is an identity tenuously constituted in time, instituted in an exterior
space through a stylized repetition of acts.”<sup>13</sup> Thus there is a repetition of acts here, EVE practices the hand holding and finally understands what WALL-E wanted in the form of romance. “This repetition is at once a reenactment and reexperiencing of a set of meanings already socially established; and it is the mundane and ritualized form of their legitimation.”<sup>14</sup>

While WALL-E, EVE and the other robots are navigating the Axiom to retrieve the plant and save the humans from the intellectual restrictions forced upon them by Auto and the BnL founders (posthumously) EVE is reduced to the role of an assistant. 

At a crucial point in the movie, when WALL-E is hurt, EVE even refuses to follow her original directive and states that WALL-E is her directive now, and takes his hand. WALL-E actually refuses and shows her the lighter again. He seems to be telling her to do what she needs to do and that he would wait for her.She has fully turned over to the gender and romance roles that she was taught. When the Axiom returns to Earth, she even nurses WALL-E back to health when she used to be extremely standoffish and aloof in the beginning.

In this movie, both gender and romance are learnt. This is beautifully revealed during the final scene. Just before WALL-E and EVE “kiss”, a similar scene from Hello, Dolly is shown which shows the stark contrast between what we’re looking at in the movie and what we see in the musical. The effect is greater because the musical is live action, that is, actual human beings and not animation. It really drives home the fact that neither of those two robots are what we think is masculine or feminine and that their “romance” is just a performance.<sup>15</sup> This means that gender is not really a tangible thing. A person is gendered due to their actions and these actions come from a societal understanding of what that person is supposed to act like. And this is what is being shown in the movie.<sup>16</sup>

WALL-E seems to subvert expected gender roles in the beginning of the movie, but as the movie progresses, roles solidify and by the end, it conforms to the general social construction of gender.<sup>17</sup>

#### References
<ol>
<li> The Social Construction of Reality: A Treatise in the Sociology of Knowledge, Berger and Luckmann (1966) </li>
<li> http://www.sparknotes.com/sociology/identity-and-reality/section1.rhtml </li>
<li> Questioning Gender: A Sociological Exploration -By Robyn Ryle: Chapter 4: How do we learn Gender? </li>
<li> http://www.slate.com/articles/technology/future_tense/2015/02/robot_gender_is_it_bad_for_human_women.html </li>
<li> How Body, Heterosexuality and Patriarchal Entanglements Mark Non-Human Characters as Male in CGI-Animated Children's Films(2014), Jessica Birthisel </li>
<li> A​ ​ woman's​ ​ skin​ ​ must​ ​ be​ ​ soft,​ ​ supple,​ ​ hairless,​ ​ and​ ​ smooth;​ ​ ideally,​ ​ it​ ​ should betray​ ​ no​ ​ sign​ ​ of​ ​ wear,​ ​ experience,​ ​ age,​ ​ or​ ​ deep​ ​ thought.​ ​Femininity and Domination: Studies in the Phenomenology of Oppression, Sandra Lee Bartky. p69 </li>
<li> Feminine​ ​ movement,​ ​ gesture,​ ​ and​ ​ posture​ ​ must​ ​ exhibit​ ​ not​ ​ only construction,​ ​ but​ ​ grace​ ​ and​ ​ a ​ ​ certain​ ​ eroticism​ ​ restrained​ ​ by​ ​ modesty:​ ​ all ​ three.​ Foucault, Femininity and the modernisation of patriarchal power: Feminist: Local and Global, Sandra Lee Bartky. p451 </li>
<li> https://journal.animationstudies.org/dietmar-meinel-space-the-final-fun-tier-returning-home-to-the-frontier/ </li>
<li> Sobchack, V. (2009), ‘Animation and Automation, or, the Incredible Effortfulness of Being’, p386 </li>
<li> Significantly, if gender is instituted through acts which are internally discontinuous, then the appearance of substance is precisely that, a constructed identity, a performative accomplishment which the mundane social audience, including the actors themselves, come to believe and to perform in the mode of belief. Gender Trouble, Judith Butler. p191-192 </li>
<li> Questioning Gender: A Sociological Exploration -By Robyn Ryle: Chapter 4: How do we learn Gender? </li>
<li> In other words, acts and gestures, articulated and enacted desires create the illusion of an interior and organizing gender core, an illusion discursively maintained for the purposes of the regulation of sexuality within the obligatory frame of reproductive heterosexuality. Gender Trouble, Judith Butler. p185-186 </li>
<li> Judith Butler, Gender Trouble. p191-192 </li>
<li> Judith Butler, Gender Trouble. p191 </li>
<li> Carol A. Bernard's "Performing Gender, Performing Romance: Pixar's WALL-E", The Galaxy Is Rated G: Essays on Children's Science Fiction Film and Television by R. C. Neighbors; Sandy Rankin </li>
<li> That the gendered body is performative suggests that it has no ontological status apart from the various acts which constitute its reality. Gender Trouble, Judith Butler, p185 </li>
<li> https://journal.animationstudies.org/dietmar-meinel-space-the-final-fun-tier-returning-home-to-the-frontier/ </li>
</ol>
