---
layout: post
title: Seminar - Chaoqiang Geng (Zhejiang University)
subtitle: Theoretical understanding of direct and indirect dark matter detections


#cover-img: /assets/img/path.jpg
tags: [seminar, event, blog, Chaoqiang-Geng, Zhejiang-University]
---

<style>
body {
text-align: justify}
</style>

Location: Multifunctional Hall on the 5th floor
Meeting time: 2021/06/22 15:00-16:00 (CST)

## Speaker: Chaoqiang Geng (Zhejiang University)

## Theoretical understanding of direct and indirect dark matter detections

### Chaoqiang Geng

______________________________

## Abstract

This lecture first introduces the evidence for the existence of dark matter at the large scale of the universe due to the gravitational effect, and then discusses whether dark matter has been seen in the results of the current direct and indirect dark matter measurement experiments. This lecture will specifically study the dark matter theoretical interpretations of the possible signals of the e+ and e-e+ zigzag cosmic lines discovered by experiments on satellites and space stations and the possible signals of CDMs indirect dark matter measurement.

______________________________

## Bio

Professor Chaoqiang Geng graduated from the Department of Modern Physics, University of Science and Technology of China (19781 982). In 1982, he entered the Institute of Theoretical Physics of the Chinese Academy of Sciences as a graduate student of Academician Dai Yuan. In the same year, he was awarded the third CUSPEA Li Zhengdao Graduate Scholarship in the United States. From 1983 to 1987, he studied for a doctorate at Virginia Tech in the United States. He is a close disciple of REMarshak (former president of the American Physical Society), the theoretical inventor of the "weak interaction", one of the four major interaction forces in nature. After 6 years of postdoctoral research in Canada and the United States, he taught at Tsinghua University in Taiwan from 1993 to 2020, and started to serve as the Executive Dean of Basic Physics and Mathematical Sciences at the National Keda Anti-State Institute of Advanced Studies in 2020. The main arbitrariness of the comic is theoretical par ticle physics, gravity and cosmology. 