---
layout: post
title: Seminar - Xuheng Ding (University of Tokyo)
subtitle: The evolution of the mass correlations between supermassive Black Holes and their host galaxies 


#cover-img: /assets/img/path.jpg
tags: [seminar, event, blog, Xuheng-Ding, University-of-Tokyo]
---

<style>
body {
text-align: justify}
</style>

Location: Multifunctional Hall on the 5th floor
Meeting time: 2021/10/27 10:00-11:30 (CST)

## Speaker: Xuheng Ding(University of Tokyo)

## The evolution of the mass correlations between supermassive Black Holes and their host galaxies 

### Xuheng Ding

______________________________

## Abstract

Most galactic nuclei harbor a supermassive black hole (BH), whose mass is well known to correlate with the host properties including luminosity, stellar mass, stellar velocity dispersion. These tight correlations suggest a physical coupling between supermassive BH growth and galaxy evolution. One key to understanding this coupling is tracing this correlation to higher redshift, determining how and when they emerged and evolved over cosmic time. In this talk, I will describe our recent works that overcomes the systematics at higher redshift and establish whether the BH-host relation evolves with cosmic time. I will also present a modeling software (GaLight) which can be used to perform two-dimensional model fitting of optical and near-infrared images to characterize the light distribution of galaxies with components including a disk, bulge, bar and quasar.

______________________________

## Bio

Xuheng Ding is currently a Postdoctoral Researcher in the University of Tokyo, Kavli IPMU, working with John Silverman's research group. He was a Ph.D. student (2012-2017) at Beijing Normal University (advisor Prof. Zong-Hong Zhu). During that period, he awarded China Scholarship Council Fellowship (CSC) and studied at University of California Los Angeles (UCLA) as a Visiting Graduate Researcher, working with Prof. Tommaso Treu. After that, he engaged in scientific research as Postdoc at Wuhan University and UCLA. 
Xuheng's current research focuses on galaxy evolution, cosmology, strong gravitational lensing. He uses high redshift AGNs to study the evolution of scaling correlations between supermassive black hole growth and its host galaxy. He is also led the Time Delay Lens Modeling Challenge (TDLMC) aiming to assess the present capabilities of lens modeling codes and assumptions and test the level of accuracy of inferred cosmological parameters given realistic mock datasets.