---
layout: post
title: Seminar - Weimin Yuan (NAOC)
subtitle: Weimin YuanEinstein probe -- exploring the changing ray universe


#cover-img: /assets/img/path.jpg
tags: [seminar, event, blog, Weimin-Yuan, NAOC]
---

<style>
body {
text-align: justify}
</style>

Location: Multifunctional Hall on the 5th floor
Meeting time: 2021/05/10 10:00-11:00 (CST)

## Speaker: Weimin Yuan (NAOC)

## Einstein probe: exploring the changing ray universe

### Weimin Yuan

______________________________

## Abstract

Thanks to the continuous use of wide field of view astronomical monitoring equipment, time domain astrophysics has entered the golden age of multi band and multi messenger observation. The X-ray universe is dynamic, with abundant high-energy flash sources, some of which are still mysterious in nature, and more are waiting to be discovered. The Einstein probe (EP) is a space X-ray astronomical satellite, which is planned to be launched at the end of 2022. It aims to monitor the little known soft X-ray band with high sensitivity. It is expected to find a large number of X-ray temporary sources inside and outside the Milky way, including rare ones with important scientific value, and monitor the time-varying characteristics of known sources. This report will introduce the scientific drive of EP, the technology used, the scientific capability and the scientific prospect in the field of time domain astronomy. EP is a space satellite project led by the Chinese Academy of Sciences and jointly participated by ESA and MPE.

______________________________

## Bio

Weimin Yuan, chief researcher of the high energy astrophysics research group of the space science department of the National Astronomical Observatory, Chinese Academy of Sciences He graduated from Max Planck Institute of extraterrestrial Physics (MPE) of Munich University of technology, Germany, and has been engaged in postdoctoral research in JAXA Tsukuba universe of Japan space agency and Cambridge University of England. After returning home, he successively worked with Yunnan Observatory and National Astronomical Observatory, the second phase of space science pilot project of Chinese Academy of Sciences, eines Chief scientist of Tan probe satellite.