---
layout: post
title: Seminar - Junfeng Wang (Xiamen University)
subtitle: A High-Definition X-ray View of Star Formation and Active Galaxies


#cover-img: /assets/img/path.jpg
tags: [seminar, event, blog, Junfeng-Wang, Xiamen-University]
---

<style>
body {
text-align: justify}
</style>

Location: Multifunctional Hall on the 5th floor
Meeting time: 2021/04/20 14:00-15:00 (CST)

## Speaker: Junfeng Wang (Xiamen University)

## A High-Definition X-ray View of Star Formation and Active Galaxies

### Junfeng Wang Seminar

______________________________

## Abstract

In this talk I will highlight X-ray observations of star forming complex in our galaxy as well as active galaxies in the local universe with the power of Chandra X-ray Observatory. The circumnuclear region in nearby active galaxies allows a more detailed view of the AGN-host galaxy interaction than their high redshift siblings. However, it is ubiquitously highly complex with presence of ionized gas, collimated radio outflow, and star formation activities, besides the active nucleus. I will present the CHandra Extended Emission Line Region Survey (CHEERS ), an X-ray imaging spectroscopic study of the circumnuclear regions of nearby archetypal Seyfert galaxies, designed to take full advantage of Chandra's unique angular resolution by spatially resolving feedback signatures, jet-cloud interactions and merger activities. Supplemented with observations in other wavelength, the line ratios and kinematics provide keys to diagnose if the line emission is excited through photoionization by the active nucleus or through high-velocity shocks generated at the interface between an outflow and the ISM.

______________________________

## Bio

Professor Junfeng Wang graduated from the Department of Astronomy of Nanjing University in 2001. After receiving his Ph.D. in astrophysics from Pennsylvania State University in December 2007, he did postdoctoral research at the Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics in Harvard, USA. In 2012, he worked as an interdisciplinary astrophysics at Northwestern University. Research Assistant Professor of the Center. In 2013, he was selected as a "National High-level Talents Youth Program" and joined the Department of Astronomy, Xiamen University as a "Minjiang Distinguished Professor". He is good at the combination of X-ray and multi-band observation and research on star-forming regions, neighboring galaxies, and active galactic nuclei, focusing on the co-evolution of galaxies and black holes. As the project leader, he has undertaken more than ten NASA and ESA space satellite observation projects, presided over the national natural science foundation general and joint key projects, and participated in the national key research and development plan and the national natural science fund key project. In 2015, he was awarded the national natural science fund Supported by the Outstanding Youth Science Fund. More than 60 SCI papers have been published in mainstream astronomy journals such as Nature, ApJ and MNRAS, with a total of about 1,900 citations, and an H factor of 27.