---
layout: post
title: Seminar - Yang Chen (Nanjing University)
subtitle: Some issues related to supernova remnants


#cover-img: /assets/img/path.jpg
tags: [seminar, event, blog, Yang-Chen, Nanjing-University]
---

<style>
body {
text-align: justify}
</style>

Location: Multifunctional Hall on the 5th floor
Meeting time: 2021/06/15 14:30-15:30 (CST)

## Speaker: Yang Chen (Nanjing University)

## Some issues related to supernova remnants

### Yang Chen

______________________________

## Abstract

Different types of supernovae tell various stories in their ( SNRs) . The progenitor  systems of Type la supernovae (so called standard candles) are now a controversial point with  the competing scenarios of single/ double degenerate stars( SD/ DD) . I'll show the evidences of  the progenitors of historical Type la SNRs Tycho and Kepler obtained from multiwavelength  studies. Magnetars has become a class of very important compact objects in high energy  astrophysics. We will talk about our discovery of a magnetar related to SNR, show interstellar  environment of some magnetar-hosting SNRs, and present an implication of " fossil origin" derived from magnetar-hosting SNRs. The third issue in this talk is the roles of diffusive high- energy protons and electrons that are accelerated in SNRs and pulsar wind nebulae, including  the illumination of molecular clouds, TeV halos, and probably 1. 4TeV electron excess as hinted  by DAMPE.

______________________________

## Bio

Chen Yang, born in August 1965, is a native of Fuzhou, Fujian Province. In 1993, he received a doctor's degree in science from Nanjing University. Now he is the second grade professor of School of astronomy and space science of Nanjing University. The course of astrophysical radiation theory, interstellar medium physics and hydromechanics are taught for postgraduates. The research direction is stellar feedback activities such as supernova remnants and interstellar gas high energy activities and their radiation. Published more than 100 papers. He has studied and cooperated with Arcetri Observatory in Italy, Harvard Smithsonian astrophysics center in the United States and the Department of astronomy of the University of Massachusetts in Amherst in the United States. He is a member of the Chinese Astronomical Society and the International Astronomical Union, a member of the editorial board of Acta astronomica and progress in astronomy, and a deputy director of the academic committee of the Key Laboratory of radio astronomy of the Chinese Academy of Sciences. In 1999, as the second completed research project, "products of supernova explosion and its precursors" won the first prize of science and technology progress award of the Ministry of education and the third prize of National Natural Science Award. In 2005, as the second completed research project, "Research on dense and diffuse products of supernovae" was nominated by the Ministry of education as the first prize of national science and technology award. In 2002, he won the honorary titles of "trans century excellent talents" of the Ministry of education and "academic leader of blue project" of universities in Jiangsu Province. In 2007, it won the support of National Science Foundation for Distinguished Young Scholars. From 2013 to 2017, he presided over the National Natural Science Foundation key project "multi band research on shock wave process of supernova remnants". He served as a member of the scientific Organizing Committee (SOC) of the International Space Science Congress (COSPAR) supernova heritage chapters in 2004, 2006 and 2010 and the Au "supernova heritage" Symposium in 2013