---
layout: post
title: Seminar - Yuanchuan Zou (Huazhong University of Science and Technology)
subtitle: Introduction to the Study of Numerical Relativity


#cover-img: /assets/img/path.jpg
tags: [seminar, event, blog, Yuanchuan-Zou, HUST]
---

<style>
body {
text-align: justify}
</style>

Location: Sunshine Room on the 4th floor
Meeting time: 2021/05/11 14:00-15:00 (CST)

## Speaker: Yuanchuan Zou (Huazhong University of Science and Technology)

## Introduction to the Study of Numerical Relativity

### Yuanchuan Zou

______________________________

## Abstract

Einstein's field equations are highly nonlinear equations. Analytical solutions only exist in highly symmetrical situations, such as Schwarzschild solutions, Kerr solutions, or approximate solutions in low-velocity weak fields. However, in the case of double compact star mergers or supermassive mergers detected by LIGO and future space gravitational waves, the corresponding solutions can only be solved by numerical calculation methods, which is called numerical relativity. Here will briefly introduce the basic theory of numerical relativity and 3+1 formalized theories and methods, as well as the use of logarithmic relativity tools including Einstein tookit, Lorene, Visit, etc.

______________________________

## Bio

Professor of Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Graduated from Huazhong University of Science and Technology in 2001 with a bachelor's degree; in 2003, graduated from the Wuhan Institute of Physics and Mathematics, Chinese Academy of Sciences with a master's degree; in 2006, graduated from Nanjing University with a doctorate. From 2007 to 2009, he did post-doctoral research at the Department of Physics, Hebrew University, Israel; from 2018 to 2020, he visited and exchanged at the Institute of Theoretical Physics of the Circle, Canada. The research field is gamma-ray bursts and related astrophysics phenomena. Aiming at the extreme relativistic motion of gamma burst jets, a series of methods are proposed to limit the Lorentz factor, including high-energy photon light depth method, deceleration time scale method, gamma-ray radiation dark period method, black body radiation time scale method, Reverse inference method of statistical relationship, etc. He has published more than 60 SCI papers and has been cited more than 1,400 times in total.
