---
layout: post
title: Seminar - Yunqi Liu (Yangzhou University)
subtitle: Critical phenomena in dynamical scalarization of charged black hole


#cover-img: /assets/img/path.jpg
tags: [seminar, event, blog, Yunqi-Liu, Yangzhou-University]
---

<style>
body {
text-align: justify}
</style>

Seminar time: 2022/05/12 14:00-16:00 (CST)

Click the link to join the meeting, or add to the meeting list:
https://meeting.tencent.com/dm/SazJENRgwT32

Conference ID: 222-363-742 

## Speaker: Yunqi Liu(Yangzhou University)

## Critical phenomena in dynamical scalarization of charged black hole

### Yunqi Liu

______________________________

## Abstract

We report a new black hole scalarization mechanism and disclose novel dynamical critical phenomena in the process of the nonlinear accretion of the scalar field into black holes. The accretion process can transform a seed black hole into a final scalarized or bald black hole, depending on the initial parameter of the scalar field. There is a critical parameter and near it all intermediate solutions are attracted to a critical solution and stay there for a long time. At late times, the solutions evolve into bald/scalarized black holes for subcritical/supercritical cases. The final masses of the resulting scalarized/bald black holes satisfy a power-law.

______________________________

## Bio

He received his Ph.D. from Fudan University in 2012, and worked as a postdoctoral researcher in Shanghai Jiaotong University from 2012 to 2014. He taught at Huazhong University of Science and Technology from 2015 to 2018, and worked at Yangzhou University since the beginning of 2018. His main research interests are dynamics-related problems in black hole gravitational systems, and gravitational wave physics in modified theory.