---
layout: post
title: Seminar - Yiming Hu (Zhongshan University)
subtitle: An implementation of Galactic white dwarf binary data analysis for MLDC-3.1



#cover-img: /assets/img/path.jpg
tags: [seminar, event, blog, Yiming-Hu, Zhongshan-University]
---

<style>
body {
text-align: justify}
</style>

Seminar time: 2022/05/16 14:30-16:00 (CST)

Click the link to join the meeting, or add to the meeting list:
https://meeting.tencent.com/dm/rHMGlBnUzari

Conference ID: 940-160-254

## Speaker: Yiming Hu(Zhongshan University)

## An implementation of Galactic white dwarf binary data analysis for MLDC-3.1


### Yiming Hu

______________________________

## Abstract

The space-borne gravitational wave detectors will observe a large population of double white dwarf binaries in the Milky Way. However, the search for double white dwarfs in the gravitational wave data will be time-consuming due to the large number of templates involved and antenna response calculation. In this paper, we implement an iterative combinatorial algorithm to search for double white dwarfs in MLDC-3.1 data. To quickly determine the rough parameters of the target sources, the following algorithms are adopted in a coarse search process: (1) using the downsampling method to reduce the number of original data points; (2) using the undersampling method to speed up the generation of a single waveform template; (3) using the stochastic template bank method to quickly construct the waveform template bank while achieving high coverage of the parameter space; (4) Combining the FFT acceleration algorithm with the stochastic template bank to reduce the calculation time of a single template. A fine search process is used to further determine the parameters of the signals based on the coarse search, for which we adopt the Particle Swarm Optimization. Finally, we detected \mathcal{O}(10^4) double white dwarf signals, validating the feasibility of our method.


______________________________

## Bio

Yiming Hu, associate professor and doctoral supervisor, graduated from Nanjing University with a bachelor’s degree in 2011 and a doctoral degree from the University of Glasgow in 2015. He successively worked as a postdoctoral fellow at the Max Planck Institute for Gravitation in Germany and Tsinghua University. Participated in the first gravitational wave event detection as a member of the LIGO scientific cooperation group. He presided over two projects of the National Natural Science Foundation of China, and participated in a number of national, provincial and ministerial-level projects such as the National Key R&D Program and the National Natural Key Project. He has co-published more than 100 papers, of which he has published more than 30 papers as the main author. He has won a bronze medal at the International Astronomy Olympiad, shared the 2017 Special Award for Breakthrough in Basic Physics with the LIGO Scientific Cooperation Group and other international awards.