---
layout: post
title: Seminar - Hong Zhang (Shandong University)
subtitle: Searching for Wormholes with Gravitational Wave Scattering


#cover-img: /assets/img/path.jpg
tags: [seminar, event, blog, Hong-Zhang, Shangdong-University]
---

<style>
body {
text-align: justify}
</style>

Seminar time: 2022/06/02 10:00-12:00 (CST)

Click the link to join the meeting, or add to the meeting list:
https://meeting.tencent.com/dm/ryx3eooHYifj

Conference ID: 261-936-645

## Speaker: Hong Zhang(Shangdong University)

## Searching for Wormholes with Gravitational Wave Scattering

### Hong Zhang

______________________________

## Abstract

Wormholes bridging distant places of the universe are well-known solutions of general relativity. However, no hint of their existence has been found yet. In this work, we propose using the gravitational wave scattering off spherical wormholes to search for their existence. We carefully calculate the reflected and transmitted waveforms with time-independent scattering theory. Our results quantitatively show the signatures in the waveforms on both sides of the wormhole.

______________________________

## Bio

 Hong Zhang, graduated from the Department of Modern Physics, University of Science and Technology of China in 2008, and obtained a Ph.D. in nuclear physics from Stony Brook University in the United States in 2014. From 2014 to 2019, he did postdoctoral research at Ohio State University in the United States and Technical University Munich in Germany, and worked in Shandong University since 2019. Research interests focus on low-energy quantum effective theory and its applications in nuclear physics and dark matter.