---
layout: post
title: Seminar - Pujian Mao (Tianjin University)
subtitle: The triangle relation and beyond


#cover-img: /assets/img/path.jpg
tags: [seminar, event, blog, Pujian-Mao, Tianjin-University]
---

<style>
body {
text-align: justify}
</style>

Seminar time: 2022/04/07 10:30-12:00 (CST)

Click the link to join the meeting, or add to the meeting list:
https://meeting.tencent.com/dm/t3uhCjFQI6h5

Conference ID: 404-825-779

## Speaker: Pujian Mao(Tianjin University)

## The triangle relation and beyond

### Pujian Mao

______________________________

## Abstract

When emitting bosonic particle with very low frequency, the tree-level scattering amplitude has a universal formula which is the soft theorem. The permanent change in the detector after the gravitational or electromagnetic wave has passed is called the gravitational or electromagnetic memory. Asymptotic symmetry is the approximate symmetry that preserves the theory when it is studied very far from the interaction. Soft theorems, memory effects, and asymptotic symmetries are shown in recent years to be mathematically equivalent. In this talk, I will give an overview of this fascinating triangle equivalence. In particular, I will explain in detail a very recent prescription to realize this triangle relation beyond the leading order.

______________________________

## Bio

Pujian Mao, associate professor of Tianjin University, focuses on the application of asymptotic symmetry in gravitational and gauge theory. He received his bachelor and master degrees from Lanzhou University in 2009 and 2012, respectively, and his Ph.D. degree from the Free University of Brussels in Belgium in September 2016. He then worked as a postdoctoral researcher at the Institute of High Energy Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences. He joined Tianjin University in July 2018 and has been working since then.