---
layout: post
title: Seminar - Zhicheng He (University of Science and Technology of China)
subtitle: Exploiting Active Galactic Nucleus Outflows


#cover-img: /assets/img/path.jpg
tags: [seminar, event, blog, Zhicheng-He, University-of-Science-and-Technology-of-China]
---

<style>
body {
text-align: justify}
</style>

Seminar time: 2022/03/15 15:20-17:20 (CST)

Click the link to join the meeting, or add to the meeting list:
https://meeting.tencent.com/dm/MnbGFhBbxSAp

Conference ID: 839-498-136 

## Speaker: Zhicheng He(University of Science and Technology of China)

## Exploiting Active Galactic Nucleus Outflows

### Zhicheng He

______________________________

## Abstract

Outflows driven by black holes at the centers of active galaxies are considered to be one of the main forms of feedback in active galactic nuclei. The scale of the outflow is one of the core parameters for understanding the origin of the outflow and measuring the impact of the outflow on the galaxy environment. The academic community generally believes that it is relatively reliable to calculate through the density-sensitive ion excited state absorption lines. However, due to the complex technology, uncertain results, and only For narrow absorption lines without self-mixing, this traditional method has only been used to infer outflow scales for dozens of active galaxies in the past three decades, and there are disputes on the order of magnitude of the scales, leading the field to focus on broad absorption lines. Research on high-velocity outflows has long been slow. The reporter established and developed a new method for diagnosing outflow density from the perspective of optical variation of absorption lines, and based on this method, new and unprecedented results about high-speed outflow were obtained.

______________________________

## Bio

Zhicheng He is an associate researcher at the University of Science and Technology of China. His main research field is active galaxies. The core scientific achievement is the establishment and development of a new method for measuring the density of outflow ionized gas in galaxies. So far, he has published 14 papers as the first author or corresponding author in internationally renowned academic journals, including 2 papers in Nature Astronomy (1 paper is the first author and corresponding author, 1 paper is an independent corresponding author), and 1 paper in Science Advances (the first one is the corresponding author) Author and corresponding author), 1 paper won the 2020 China Highly Cited Paper Award selected by the American Astronomical Society and the British Physical Society Press.