---
layout: post
title: Seminar - Ruoyu Liu (Nanjing University)
subtitle: A multi-zone view of blazar's emission


#cover-img: /assets/img/path.jpg
tags: [seminar, event, blog, Ruoyu-Liu, Nanjing-University]
---

<style>
body {
text-align: justify}
</style>

Seminar time: 2022/01/05 10:00-12:00 (CST)





## Speaker: Ruoyu Liu(Nanjing University)

## A multi-zone view of blazar's emission

### Ruoyu Liu

______________________________

## Abstract

Blazars are a class of active galactic nuclei that host relativistic jets oriented close to the observer's line of sight. Non-thermal radiation of relativistic jet is observed at all wavelengths from radio to gamma-rays and shows a spectral energy distribution (SED) with double humps. the most common interpretation is the one-zone leptonic model which assums that all the jet's emission comes from a single compact spherical region. While this conventional model has made a great success on interpretation of the multi-wavelength SEDs and variabilities of many blazars, there are growing observational evidences implying the existence of more than one radiation zones in a blazar jet.  Various theoretical interpretation beyond the conventional one-zone model have been proposed to account specific phenomena but sometimes cannot be synthesized into a coherent picture. Following observational facts of some blazars, we propose a new model in which the jet contains numerous spherical emitting blobs at different locations along the jet. We show that the model can reproduce many features of blazars that are difficult to be explained with the conventional models. The framework of this model is flexible and can be integrated with many other models.



______________________________

## Bio

Ruoyu Liu obtained his Bachelor and Master degrees in Physics at Tsinghua I obtained my doctoral degree from the University of Heidelberg in 2015. Then I worked as a postdoctoral researcher in Max-Planck-Institute for Nuclear Physics (MPIK) and Deutsches Electron-Synchrotron researcher center (DESY) respectively for two years. In 2019, I returned to China and joined to Nanjing University. My research interest mainly focuses on (but not limited to) the astroparticle physics and the high-energy astrophysics, including the origin of high-energy cosmic rays and high-energy neutrinos, the radiation processes in dynamic astrophysical objects such blazars, gamma-ray bursts, pulsar wind nebulae, etc, as well as their roles as the accelerators of cosmic rays.