---
layout: post
title: Zoe
subtitle: Dog sitting, house sitting, cleaning
---

I've been looking after animals for years, mostly for long-term customers. I also do domestic cleaning.


<<<<<<< HEAD
#### Animal Sitting
My husband Bill and I will look after your pets in your home. We mainly sit dogs but in the past we've cared for several generations of customers' cats.

Before we start a sit we'll visit you to get to know your pet and, in the case of dogs, join you on  a walk.

We don't take pets into our own home and we are not dog walkers.
=======
#### Pet Sitting
My husband Bill and I will look after your pets in your home. Recently we've mostly cared for dogs but in the past we've sat several generations of customers' cats.

Before starting an animal sit we'll visit to get to know your pet and in the case of a dog, join you on a walk.

We don't take animals into our own home and we are not dog walkers. Looking after your pet at home reduces stress and gives us the opportunity to form a great relationship withto  at home reduces stress allows me and Bill to forming a relatiuonship with your dog
>>>>>>> 5af4ddc2a70a7eb1476016e722a5b9802aafb380

Caring for pets at home

<<<<<<< HEAD
 - The cost is £35 per day or part of day:
 - A non-returnable £35 deposit secures booking.
 - We sleep overnight in your house.
 - At least one of us sits with your pet through most of the day
 - Dogs get walked up to twice a day.
 - We bring our own food and bedding.
 - We leave your house in the same state as we found it.

We can only sit one house at a time and may be continuously booked so please contact me well in advance.

#### Domestic cleaning

If you want the job done in half the time my husband is usually available to assist
=======
 - Pet Sitting costs £35 per day or part of day:
 - We sleep overnight in your house, bringing our own bedding.
 - At least one of us remains with your pet for most of the day.
 - Dogs get walked up to twice a day.
 - We bring our own food.
 - We leave your house in the same state we found it.

We can only sit one house at a time and are sometimes continuously booked, so please contact me well in advance. A £35 non-returnable deposit will secure a booking.

#### Domestic cleaning
I can do regular or one-off cleans of your house. If you are happy for my husband, Bill, to assist, we can speed the process up but I am equally happy to work by myself. 
>>>>>>> 5af4ddc2a70a7eb1476016e722a5b9802aafb380

**07765 612629**&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**zoe@billandzoe.uk**

<a href="tel:643643636363}" title="Call me on 53535353535">
    <span class="fa-stack fa-lg" aria-hidden="true">
    <i class="fas fa-circle fa-stack-2x"></i>
    <i class="fas fa-phone fa-stack-1x fa-inverse"></i>
    </span>
    <span class="sr-only">Phone</span>
</a><a href="mailto:bill@billandzoe.uk" title="Email me at bill@billandzoe.uk">
      <span class="fa-stack fa-lg" aria-hidden="true">
        <i class="fas fa-circle fa-stack-2x"></i>
        <i class="fas fa-envelope fa-stack-1x fa-inverse"></i>
      </span>
      <span class="sr-only">Email me</span>
</a>

Or fill in the contact form below.
Please, nothing sensitive like card details.

