---
layout: post
title: Methodology paper accepted in Biometrics
subtitle: A Bayesian Zero-Inflated Dirichlet-Multinomial Regression Model for Multivariate Compositional Count Data 
tags: [publication]
---
The Dirichlet-multinomial (DM) distribution plays a fundamental role in modern statistical methodology development and application. 
Recently, the DM distribution and its variants have been used extensively to model multivariate count data generated by high-throughput 
sequencing technology in omics research due to its ability to accommodate the compositional structure of the data as well as overdispersion.
A major limitation of the DM distribution is that it is unable to handle excess zeros typically found in practice which may bias inference. 
To fill this gap, we propose a novel Bayesian zero-inflated DM model for multivariate compositional count data with excess zeros.
We then extend our approach to regression settings and embed sparsity-inducing priors to perform variable selection for high-dimensional covariate 
spaces. Throughout, modeling decisions are made to boost scalability without sacrificing interpretability or imposing limiting assumptions.
Extensive simulations and an application to a human gut microbiome data set are presented to compare the performance of the proposed method to 
existing approaches. We provide an accompanying \texttt{R} package with a user-friendly vignette to apply our method to other data sets.

Here's a link to the [pdf](https://mkoslovsky.github.io/ZeroInflated.pdf).
