---
layout: post
title: BDRSuite v7.0.1 GA release
date: 2024-02-14T09:58:04.234Z
nobanner: no
fb-img: null
---
The fight against cyber threats never stops, and ransomware remains a top concern for businesses of all sizes. Vembu, a leading provider of backup and disaster recovery solutions, understands this challenge and has released BDRSuite v7.0.1, packed with features to empower your data security like never before.

The highlight of this release is undoubtedly the Immutable Object Storage support. By partnering with platforms like S3 and S3 compatibles, BDRSuite ensures your backup data remains tamper-proof and unalterable, even in the face of sophisticated ransomware attacks. This layer of immutability acts as an impassable shield, giving you peace of mind knowing your backups are safe and readily available for recovery.

## BDRSuite v7.0.1 GA Download Link:

BDRSuite v7.0.1 Release candidate is now ready for download and live on the official website - [Download BDRSuite v7.0.1 GA](https://www.bdrsuite.com/vembu-bdr-suite-download/)

Note that This release candidate is intended for **fresh installations only**. It is not compatible with existing installations and should not be installed on top of them.

BDRSuite v7.0.1 GA is a Windows or Linux installer and you can use it unrestricted for free during a **30 days trial period**.

## Immutable Object Storage

BDRSuite’s new Immutable Object Storage now supports platforms like S3 and S3 compatible to ensure backup data remains unaltered. Even with the swarm of ransomware threats, backups stored on immutable cloud storage remain dependable to streamline data recovery.

- Enhanced security for backup data
- Protection against ransomware attacks
- Assurance of unaltered backup data
- Seamless integration with popular cloud platforms like S3 and S3 compatible Storage
- Facilitates instant data recovery in case of disaster

## Linux Hardened Repositories

BDRSuite's Linux Hardened Repository makes your stored data tamper-proof, guaranteeing its security and integrity. This extra shield protects your backups from even the most cunning ransomware attacks through the use of immutable storage, meaning once backup data is stored, it remains unaltered.

## Full VM Recovery for KVM

BDRSuite's KVM Full VM Recovery leverages powerful technology to streamline disaster recovery for KVM-based infrastructures. Effortlessly restore entire virtual machines to either the same host or an alternative KVM host to a previous state, ensuring minimal downtime and optimal efficiency. This feature enhances your overall resilience and business continuity by providing fast, reliable recovery options for your critical KVM environments.


- Seamless restoration of entire virtual machines on KVM hypervisors
- Simplified recovery process for KVM-based infrastructures
- Enhanced resilience and business continuity


# File Level Recovery for KVM, Azure, AWS

BDRSuite's File Level Recovery unlocks granular data recovery across KVM, Azure VM, and AWS EC2 environments. This innovative feature allows you to selectively restore individual files and folders, minimizing downtime and streamlining recovery processes. Enjoy an intuitive user experience with built-in workflows for pinpointing and retrieving specific data, ensuring efficient and precise data restoration.

- Granular recovery of individual files and folders from KVM, Azure VM, and AWS EC2 instances
- Reduction of downtime by selectively restoring critical files
- Improved efficiency in data restoration processes
- Streamlined user experience with intuitive file recovery workflows

# Other improvements

A number of additional enhancements are also part of BDRSuite v7.0.1:

- **Servers & Endpoints**: New and improved search and Filters on the Data Source page to monitor Protection Status, Agent Status and Version Details.
- **List of Protected Entities**: Export a host list as a CSV file and options to search and sort protected entities list.
- **SharePoint Online Backup**: Enable automatic backup for newly added sites with the ‘All Sites’ Filter.
- **SharePoint Sites Restore**: Option to locally download the backed up Files & Folders of SharePoint Site.
- **User Mailbox & OneDrive Restore**: New option to include/exclude deleted items for restore.
- Retention reports for AWS and Azure backup.
- Search based on file or folder names in file-level recovery.

## Installing BDRSuite v7.0.1 GA

As mentioned previously, this release candidate is intended for **fresh installations only** so it is not compatible with existing installations and should not be installed on top of them! [Download BDRSuite v7.0.1 GA](https://www.bdrsuite.com/vembu-bdr-suite-download/) and install it on a new dedicated machine (recommended method) or uninstall the existing BDRSuite instance if there is one.

## Wrap up 

BDRSuite offers a reliable and efficient way to backup and protect various virtual machines (KVM, cloud, vSphere, Hyper-V...) and their data. It ensures that your VMs are backed up regularly, allows for flexible recovery options, and helps you meet your business’s recovery objectives (RTO & RPO).

Stay tuned for further announcements and updates as Vembu is working on this latest major version of BDRSuite v7.0.1, which will include even more features and improvements.