---
layout: post
title: Where Am i in my career and learning?
subtitle: Where Am i.
cover-img: assets/img/where_am_i.jpg
#thumbnail-img: /assets/img/thumb.png
share-img: /assets/img/path.jpg
tags: [blogs]
author: Baltej Giri
---

Hello Again, I am currenly working at a ISP for their Network Operations Center. It has been close to two years at this role. Although there is a broad range of technologies are used to deliver layer 2 and 3 serivices however, the day-to-day activities are involved into reviewing device logs, configuration, service port and coordination work amoung different teams such as Core Data Network, Broadband Network, different ISP's and such. As far as my career goal I am keen to enter into Enterprise Networking. To achieve this goal, I have set my objective to learn Enterprise Networking technology through self-learning. I have choosen Cisco Systems, Inc. and follow their curriculam for an associate level exam (Cisco Certified Network Associate) exam code 200-301. Cisco has moulded a robust set of skillset to be tested on this exam i.e. Networking Fundamental, Network Access, IP Services, Security Fundamentals and Automation. If you want to see what this or any other certification entails, do visit <https://www.cisco.com> and their cerifications and learning section.

I usually spend at least an hour either studing OCG book for CCNA or lab using tools like Packet tracer or GNS3 on a work day, I am spending 4-5 hours to prepare for CCNA exam during off rotation from work. I am aiming to sit for CCNA exam by the mid of August 2024. So, there is a lot of learning and lab practices to do. It is the time to buckle down and get to the studies.

Soon I will update you with another blog until then keep learning.