---
layout: post
title: Project Proposal
subtitle: The Virtual Curation Station
gh-repo: samzgrunebaum/samzgrunebaum.github.io
gh-badge: [star, fork, follow]
tags: [virual,curation,station,virtual curation station,WCMA,art,design,The Sims]
---

WCMA’s greatest asset is not just solely its collection but the degree to which visitors can engage with and experience the objects on an intimate level – however, there is one glaring problem with visitor engagement at WCMA: not all visitors truly get the opportunity to experience the secret stories of these precious objects nor do they all get to add their own chapter. If a Williams student is lucky, they can participate in the wonderful WALLS program. If a faculty member is so inclined, they can select and display works from the collection to add a new dimension to their teaching. But what of the many visitors each year who are neither students nor faculty, what of the hundreds of tourists and alumni who see the joyful and enriching experiences of students and professors as they interact closely with WCMA’s collection? 
How can WCMA make sure that those visitors who are just passing through can still experience the rich depth of WCMA’s collection, see that these objects have lives of their own (some stretching back centuries), and leave their mark on this collaborative space for learning and appreciating art?
This problem actually arises from deeper analysis of WCMA’s greatest strengths as a museum with very unique qualities. Because it is a small museum located near two much larger museums and because it is located on a college campus, WCMA is able to offer opportunities for engagement with its wide-ranging collection that would not be feasible at other museums. However, most of these opportunities are limited in scale and are not always available at the museum. 
WALLS is limited by the number of works available for borrowing and is only available to Williams students during the academic year. Interactive projects such as the installation of new works are accessible only to students who are heavily involved with the museum. WCMA’s object lab, while accessible to the public, only offers opportunities for students to engage with art as it relates to their fields of study, rather than presenting an opportunity for visitors of all kinds to select and display art that connects to their interests.
Our solution is to make the library, an underutilized space that seems to perplex visitors as they meander through the galleries upstairs, an interactive space where visitors can choose works from the collection to curate their own virtual exhibition. This will be done by the development of a web application, inspired by the interior design aspect of the video game The Sims, where visitors place 3-D renderings of works from the collection throughout a virtual version of WCMA. Not only will each work have attached to it all of the saved virtual collections of which it is a part, but they will also have a thread of comments by users of the app who wish to record their personal connections to works that they choose to include in their virtual exhibition.
The curation application will serve simultaneously as a museum map, a catalogue of the collection, and a place for interactions between visitors who find connections with specific works. The curation application will also be available for use on WCMA’s website.
 This application allows visitors of all kinds, even visitors to WCMA’s website, to engage with the collection in a personal way and to take a piece of it with them in the form of a saved virtual exhibition that will be tied to their personal account made with the museum. Integrating the application into touch displays in the library will allow visitors to take inspiration from their museum visit without being distracted while viewing the actual exhibitions themselves. The social media aspect of the curation application, where visitors comment on works and exhibitions, encourages a sense of community based around engagement with the collection.
