---
layout: research_topic
title: Exposome
color: "#347320"
---

There are multiple research opportunities for identifying environmental contributions to disease, from individual environmental exposures to the ‘exposome’: the totality of exposures for each individual over the life course. For some diseases, there are known environmental exposures that contribute to risk, such as smoking or UV exposure in age-related cataracts. However, for many disorders, such as autism, the environmental contribution to disease risk and severity are active areas of exploration. Distinguishing important environmental factors from large numbers of possible exposures is a challenge; however, environment-wide association studies (EWAS) offer a high-throughput solution.

Before the development of EWAS, researchers were restricted to assessing one or a small number of environmental exposures at a time, and these were typically chosen because they had some demonstrated involvement with the chosen trait. Similarly to GWAS, EWAS enabled discovery of novel environment–phenotype associations because the method does not rely on what is known in environmental epidemiology. The relatively recent advent of EWAS has allowed researchers to scan all available environmental measures agnostically and identify multiple, previously undiscovered exposures predicting disease. The first EWAS was performed using 266 exposures from NHANES for T2D. These researchers found associations for polychlori- nated biphenyls (PCBs) and vitamin g-tocopherol as risk exposures for T2D, and b-carotene as a protective factor. Since this study several other EWAS have been performed, including association with metabolic syndrome, serum lipid levels, all-cause mortality, and preterm birth, as well as another EWAS for T2D using phenotype data from electronic medical records. Using the EWAS approach, targeted studies have also looked at diet alone for blood pressure and metal exposure.

Ultimately, the goal is that information about genetic and environmental complexity is used to guide environmental policies to protect vulnerable populations.