---
created: 2021-03-26T15:49:12+05:30
modified: 2021-03-26T15:49:14+05:30
tags: [work]
---

The game exists, and if you fight it you lose. So play the game.

The first step is networking. Go to industry events, conferences, talks, etc. Meet people, head down to the pub with them and talk shop, grab a coffee and make connections (flavoured liquids quite literally run this planet and have done for millenia).

Once you have done that (not first, your goal is the connection, not the job pitch), wait until they ask you what you're doing. That's when you say something like 'I finished up with [blah] a while back, I'm doing [blah2] as a hobby while I look for my next gig'.

That doesn't get you the job. But it gets you into the mind of your drinking buddy / coffee buddy. The next time they meet with someone who is looking to kick off a project in your field, or looking for talent, etc etc - they have your name. "Oh I know a guy who's looking for [blah] work, I'll hook you up".

You don't need to know the people for decades. People are generally SUPER keen to make those connections for others, being seen as the guy who knows a guy is very attractive. That pre-vets you as someone who is capable of making that social connection, which like it or not is a requisite part of pretty much any skilled job on the planet. This instantly puts you head and shoulders above anyone who has just thrown a CV and cover letter at a job ad, which in my experience is enough to get you a job very quickly.

If you suck at networking, it's much more profitable for you to work on that rather than nearly anything else. It is quite honestly the hallmark of successful people.
