---
created: 2021-04-20T20:19:33+05:30
tags: [work]
modified: 2021-04-20T20:19:51+05:30
---

 made an inspiring post about careers for women in engineering and in the comments a question about setting boundaries at the workplace arised.

In this post I want to take a deeper look at this topic because this is an important one, ladies. As young girls we are raised to be nice, helping, non-confrontational. We were praised if we helped our moms to cook, tidy up or water the plants. This kind of upbringing influences us immensely subconsciously even as adults. 

And let me tell you, these instilled patterns are not in our favor when we enter the workplace. In the following I will show you some examples where our own mindset sabotages us, ergo where our coworkers are not at fault. After that I will show examples where we have to actively set and establish our boundaries because someone is trying to push them.

1) Do you ever sit down to have a meeting and your boss asks who wants write a protocol? To bring a couple of water bottles? Make the room darker? (I won't even mention baking muffins or anything for your department - just don't do it) You get the idea - anything that doesn't have anything in common with your actual job. Resist the urge to help and sit still. Because once you take on these tasks voluntary twice, you will expected to always do them. As bad as it sounds, but you will be perceived as rude when you don't jump up immediately once your boss asks again for something similar.

ANTIDOTE: In a well functioning team such tasks will be distributed evenly, everyone will do something once in a while. And you should do your fair share too, just don't take on any more than the rest of the team.

2) Imagine you're having smalltalk with a senior college or even with your manager. She/he asks you how you're doing. You are telling them you're fine and the conversation goes on. STOP. Act as a peer, ask them how they're doing too. Same goes for any other questions that are often only asked top-down: "what were you working on today?", "how was the meeting with XY?".

ANTIDOTE: Don't hesitate and ask them back. You're not being rude doing this. Most of the times it's refreshing for managers to have a "normal" conversation with their conversation partner being relaxed about the higher status.

3) This is probably the most important one. Don’t diminish your successes. If you sold a lot of products, finished a project on time or anything similar - brag about it like your life depends on it. Sounds too dramatic? Now think how your manager decides whom to promote. Exactly, the one she/he remembers doing good work, not necessarily the one actually doing the most of good work.

ANTIDOTE: If you hear a male coworker bragging about his project, take your time to have a look what he actually accomplished. I’m not saying that what they’ve done isn’t really good, but I’m saying that you probably do as good or even better all the time and are not talking about your successes enough.

Now to the examples where you must pro-actively assert your boundaries:

1) Some coworker jokes about something a la “females and cars, a tragedy” or any other bullshit? Jokingly call him out on anything with his clothes. Sorry, but 99% of the time men look like shit, so this is an easy one. Example: “Yeah and you don’t even know how to choose a shirt your size”. The little magic here is to not immediately become defensive, but to answer as unimpressed and dry as possible back with a comment not too offensive, so it seems like you don’t really care.

ANTIDOTE: For this example especially, don’t overthink it. If you hear such comment once, go use the trick above. If a coworker makes rude jokes on daily basis, he is the asshole. Why should you think of strategies how to be cool with it? Nah sis, contact HR and watch him burn.

2) Your manager gives you projects/tasks that are way too easy or on the contrary to hard for your level of experience? First of all, have a talk with him, maybe there is a misunderstanding and there was absolutely nothing ill minded. However, if you notice a pattern and you always get the unrewarding tasks, look for a new employer. Sometimes it just isn’t worth to try changing a current workplace.

ANTIDOTE: When applying for a new position, ask some probing questions. How is the workload distributed? Is there a structured onboarding? When can you expect to be fully capable of doing all the work that comes with that position?

3) If a coworker is too touchy for your gusto, straight out tell him, even if there are other colleagues in the room. There is so much shame in women, please don’t think that you will embarrass him or that he will hate you after that. If you say that e.g. he should stop leaning on your shoulder (I had a colleague much taller than me who constantly tried to rest his elbow on my shoulder when we had to stand. Cringy as fuck.) that is an absolutely appropriate reaction! Imaging not saying anything – he might think that you even like it!

ANTIDOTE: Call out cringy behavior for what it is. Point made.

Feel free to add more tips and talk about your experience, every opinion is welcome!!