---
created: 2021-07-05T23:18:01+05:30
modified: 2021-07-05T23:18:03+05:30
---
[[work_self_dev]]
The best analysis I ever heard of this was actually from one of my exes. We didn't stay together but I have to give him credit for this.

* Fulfillment/passion vs salary/growth is a false dichotomy, a false binary. Don't fall for it. 

* The fact is the higher you go in any given profession almost no matter what it is, the more complex and interesting the work gets

* The fewer controls and restrictions are put on you.

* The more freedom you have to act within the scope of that profession.

* The more creative you can be and the more in control you are of your own time.

* So don't ask yourself, what do I want to be when I grow up, or even worse what is my passion?

* Find something you are at least mildly interested in or have some degree of curiosity about. Combine that with a moderately responsible analysis of its income potential. (Even if you think "money doesn't matter to me" because if you're *lucky* enough one day you may be mutually responsible to other people in your life (a spouse, children) and within that responsibility, your income matters.) 

* Do it long enough to get good enough at it to be promoted to where you have the creativity and freedom to act. 

* Because *that* is what makes a job or a profession enjoyable, good, or worth doing. 

* Not passion. Plenty of human beings were passionate about teaching or about kids, but have been ground up by an educational system that uses up teachers and spits them out, or keeps them in and keeps grinding them down because it's not an easy profession to laterally transfer out of. Same with nurses. Same with any passion profession. 

* Because the cruel truth is that passion professions know that there are always people clamoring to get in, or people for whom the bubble of illusion hasn't yet been burst.

* Passion professions capitalize on that, all too often using it against workers and employees, ultimately exploiting people. (And it's not just about modeling, publishing, and other flashy industries. Even in corporate america there are passion profession departments, like marketing, sales, public relations). 

* Think about how much smoke society collectively blows up the asses of teachers, nurses, EMTs and so forth. If passion professions aren't low paid and overworked, they are overworked with the awareness there's always someone coming up behind you who wants your place. 

* It's a cruel trick, an unintentional one, that society teaches us to ask ourselves 'what's my passion?' Especially the trite bullshit phrase about how when you work your passion you never work a day in your life. Because there isn't a writer or author on this planet who doesn't write for passion, but the work itself of writing is a massive slog, a chore, and requires *massive resilience and a tremendously tough work ethic.* That is a fact of any passion profession. You can love it, *but
  there is no profession that will circumvent the fact of work ethic.* And passion is not a substitute for that work ethic. If you get into a passion profession thinking you'll never have to work a day in your life, you'll have a lot of cruel home truths coming to roost. 

  * You don't have to get to upper echelon levels in a profession in order to reach a level of creative freedom. Corner office, suit, and bullshit demeanor are not required. 

  * You just have to get good enough to be in demand. Your profession has to be a seller's market not a buyer's market, where they are coming to you, you're not having to beg them to employ you. 

  * Obviously no one starts off there. The first 10 or 15 years of any profession, you have to beg and court employers to hire you. But if you pick the right profession, once you reach a certain level, they come to you. 

  Because of this ex's advice, I now have a profession where I haven't had to seek out an employer for the last 6 years. And I've changed employers. But they now come to me. 

  Every single change of employment I've had in the last 6:years, they have come to me. They have found me, actively recruited me, courted me, paid me more to work with them, and consequently given me greater freedom and control over my own time, each time. 

  And trust me, I don't have a corner office. I don't wear a suit. I'm a woman and I don't wear heels. I don't go out to business dinners. I don't have to do any of that smarmy corporate bullshit. 

  I don't even have to manage people. If I wanted to I could easily add $50-60K to my annual income, but I don't want to manage people. And I make enough where I am that I have the freedom to choose not to. 

  I just happen to be one of only a couple thousand people in the United States who (1) do what I do, (2) at the level I do it. And that's enough. I didn't start out there by any stretch of the imagination.  

  I know this all sounds very self congratulatory, but the fact is until someone broke it down to me this way I too was pining for a passion profession. I too thought it was a false binary. I too was a lost and confused puppy in corporate america, which was grinding me down since I wasn't choosing my own direction. 

  Hopefully it's also 100% clear that I absolutely love what I do. I didn't when I started out, because I was in those low level jobs that I had to work my way up and out of. But once my ex broke it down to me like above, I realized I was in the lower tiers of a profession that is actually fairly rare and extremely in demand in the niche that I work in. I could see the light at the end of the tunnel and I got myself up and out of the restricted, constrained, highly controlled,
  everyones-bitch low-level jobs at the bottom end of what I do. 

  There's since been at least one if not a couple of authors who have written career advice type of books with exactly this class of advice. To pick something few other people do, get good enough at it but employers come to you, and that's when you have the creative freedom and control you think you're going to get out of a passion profession, but you never will.
