---
created: 2021-03-26T23:45:50+05:30
modified: 2021-03-26T23:45:53+05:30
---

I'm also 100% the kind of person who tends towards solitude. I used to tell my husband all the time that I simply have close to zero social drive. I feel driven to spend time with one person, that's it. I never feel lonely, and I have always felt content with my life independent of the size of my social circle. It's like if people were food, I could eat the same thing every day and I get no joy out of eating other food, so I don't seek it out. Seeking it out is a lot of work.

Here is the danger in resigning yourself to the smallest social network possible: you don't realize what you need other people for until something catastrophic happens.

My husband died two months ago and when he died, I wanted to die too. I wanted to be alone and I wanted to quit. My hobbies and my interests were meaningless to me. The only thing that mattered to me was my husband, and he was gone. But we had just had a baby boy, and I was the only person who mattered to him.

I was in a psych ed group recently and they had a class about social support. There was a short perceived social support questionnaire that listed categories like: "Acceptance" "Encouragement" "Companionship" "Partner for activities" "New Ideas" "Help with tasks" "Guidance" and stuff like that. Then a space to name the person in your life who you go to for each, and a space to note if you're satisfied in that category or need more support, etc.

My list was so empty, because I would have written my husband's name under every single category. I didn't even know that he fulfilled all of those specific things in my life. But in any case, he was dead. I realized that my ideas of what I "need" people for was so shallow, and when I actually needed people, I did not know who to go to. Not because they don't exist, but because I never identified them and never cultivated those relationships. And selfishly, I never realized that I'm supposed to fulfill these roles for other people too, but I withheld myself because it was "hard work". You delude yourself into believing that you don't need these things in order to live a full life, or that you alone can provide all of this for yourself.

I think that most people will read the quote in the title and think about it in terms of socialization as in, just talking to others or "having friends". I am sure that when Jim Carrey said it, he was talking about the danger of solitude in the face of darkness in your life, whether it is mental illness or the hopelessness that comes with tragedy. The only sure thing in life is tragedy. Social support is the only thing that can create hope out of nothing.