---
created: 2021-07-09T22:05:35+05:30
modified: 2021-07-09T22:05:37+05:30
---

I've never ever seen men question their own intellect or knowledge, only ever overestimate their expertise or knowledge. That the entire premise for "mansplaining", yes? That men lack the self-awareness to know that personal knowledge has limitations? And will often disregard the knowledge of actual experts, most often women, in service of posturing and demonstrating their "intellect"? It's not something I would want to emulate :grimacing:

As you mentioned, the guys you talked to learn from watching videos and the internet in general. In my experience, women do exactly the same - they're simply less likely to assume this makes them experts, or as knowledgeable as professionals. I don't think you need to prove your intellect to anyone. 

I've thought about it often, what I can do to hold up "my end" of conversations and interactions... And the truth I have arrived at is that I need to think less about that, and more about whether or not *I* am interested in the other person. If I'm not relaxed enough and secure enough to be genuinely curious, every interaction is simply to prove to myself that I am - insert attribute here- likeable, smart, funny, attractive, whatever :sweat_smile: And that will always prevent genuine
connection, and feel unfulfilling. 

You don't need to know a certain amount of information, or have some qualification, to be  a good conversationalist, or an "intellectual". Everyone is an intellectual in their own right. If you want to further your personal growth, I'd say: do what you genuinely enjoy. Read books and watch content - but only if you're truly enjoying it. There is no competition. The pressure to "prove yourself" is itself a manifestation of the patriarchy. You have nothing to prove :hugging_face::heart: 
