 My Ultimate ADHD/Autism "Become a Functional Person" Productivity Cheatsheet 
 
     I literally can't even tell what I'm feeling righ now": Like the right-below-mentioned mindmap app, but this time on a scrap paper. Instead of actively trying to make a structured map or to figure out "what to do next", I just write absolute nonsense onto a shitty scrap of paper I know I'll throw out. I'll write things like "I feel hungry." and then realize I'm actually hungry and that's why I can't think for shit. Or "Debra still needs to email me her reply" and just voicing that helps give that cycling thought an outlet, so I can move on and focus on something else. I like keeping a big scrappy "school-workbook" to a college I never went to, as I can write/doodle in it without worrying about making something nice-looking. It's the unfiltered braindump recepticle.
 
 TL;DR: Braindumping.
 
     "My Brain is Full of Bees": I use "MiMind" Mindmapping to help me braindump a bajillion buzzing thoughts onto a single 'board'. MiMind specifically allows me to make unstructured mindmaps, so I don't have to come up with a 'master' node to link everything to. I can just make a random floating bubble anywhere on the board, and THEN eventually link it to something when I realize "Oh X task is related to Y over here, actually" or "I want to do XYZ, but ABC is preventing me from doing that so looks like I have to do ABC first." This helps alleviate the feeling of chaotic-stress or "too much going on".
 
 TL;DR: Mindmapping.
 
     "What the fuck am I doing next again?": Workflowy is a free minimalist list-tree app that I use as both a Masterlist for references I need (A list of addresses, links, projects, goals, emails, task-trees, etc) and as a way to turn a series of tasks into a linear step-by-step. They recently implimented a function that allows you to make "boards" you can drag and drop lists into. I've been using a three-section board of "Do Soon", "Do Eventually", and "Would be Neat" to help me separate tasks. Do-soon is stuff I'm either doing TODAY or this-week, or ought to do next. "Do Eventually" is for things that either aren't time sensitive, or I can't pursue yet because something else has to be done first. "Would be Neat" is for everything else -- like things that would be nice to have but aren't immediately pressing nor life-changingly important. If you had to pick only one tool, I vouch Workflowy, as it's also free and you can use it across both PC and phones. It's minimalist built is also incredibly ADHD friendly, and fast enough to launch that I don't get distracted before I get to insert something.
 
 TL;DR: Section tasks as "Do Soon, Do Eventually, Would be neat".
 
     "I keep losing track of all this important shit": Learning Gsheets and how to make aesthetically legible charts is not just a work-transferrable skill, but absolutely fucking crucial to craft your own ADHD-Reference "Masterbook of Important Shit". I've created myself a single massive document with different tabs for different topics, like my own personal financial-tracking, my long-term project aspirations, a reference list of all the Zoom links I need to have on-hand (and to who/what they're tied to). You can make a bajillion different tabs all in the same file, color-code them, and adjust them to your hyper-specific needs. You won't make your first sheet into a work of art -- you're going to make a lot of shitty ones first. But over time you'll learn what worked, what doesn't work, and what needs you actually have. The Gsheet community is very helpful too, and learning how to create a sublime reference sheet for yourself will free up a lot of our valuable-and-lacking mental RAM-space. I know I'm not going to remember what email I received the Zoom Meeting link in -- but I also know which tab I need to open in order to find it. Having ADHD means we have to constantly externalize what we "know" into "I know where to find it."
 
 TL;DR: Externalize your knowledge/information-needs onto one Gsheet with sectioned tabs.
 
     "Why can't I fucking get started on this": TimeTimer is a free app that compensates a crucial ADHD problem: our inability to have a sense of time. We have "Now" or "Not Now" as our sense of timing, and "Forever" or "Nothing" as our sense of how long something will take. TimeTimer externalizes our sense of time into a visual shrinking pie-chart that cures the procrastination-anxiety that manifests when we feel that something will take forever to do. Dishes that feel endless suddenly feel easy to do when you have a visual timer indicating "15 minutes" that's shrinking down. Being able to visually see time disappearing, really helps to motivate yourself to pursue a task and to make said task appear a lot less all-consuming. We freeze when we can't see the end to a task/project, a visual timer gives us freedom and clarity of mind when we're like this. Numbers counting down is still too 'abstract' for a lot of us, but seeing something shrink down over time gives a much more concrete sense of time.
 
 TL;DR: Visual Timers (shrinking pie-charts, hourglasses ) removes time-anxiety.
 
     "I keep fucking wandering off mid-task": Junebugging is a concept where you "assign" yourself an anchor point. Say you want to clean the dishes but keep wandering off; you make the kitchen sink your "Anchor point." You get started on the dishes, but something distracts you (like taking out the trash) so you wander off to remove the trash. Eventually you'll remember "oh yeah I'm Junebugging" and you return to the sink. Your work-process is going to look Chaotic as Fuck from the outside, but you'll eventually finish the dishes, AND have accomplished a bunch of random tasks surrounding that physical space (trash, cleaning the oven, changing out the dishtowels, changing lightbulbs, sweeping). Having ADHD involves accepting that you'll have SOME 'wandering off', but we can guide our hurricane-of-chaotic-attention to specific areas/topics versus punishing ourselves for being unable to focus on One Thing. The next-level refinement of Junebugging is taking a day to deliberately list yourself a bunch of 'cluster tasks' you can do together and default to when junebugging. You can also apply this to digital programs/folders/emails, though I recommend an external post-it note reminder of what you're presently junebugging, for lack of physical anchor.
 
 TL;DR: Junebugging.
 
     "I fucking hate alarms but I need alarms": I only recently found this but I like it immensely; TimeTune allows you to create clusters of alarms you can turn on/off. I have alarm/audio-notifications set to go off 5 minutes before specific meetings, specific time-sensitive work-events, to remind me to prepare for work, and even to go off when work itself starts and ends. Timetune allows you to turn off entire routines of alarms (so if you have a day off you don't have to remove 10 alarms at once and remember to add 10 alarms the next day), and it allows you to choose much less obstructive sound-cues if you just need a quick audible beep versus a much more unpleasant and invasive wakeup-alarm. While getting visual notifications (at first) seems like an obvious ADHD solution, we risk getting "Notification Overload" where we just start dismissing notifications without even reading or noticing them. Timetune gives you the breathing-room of just a quick reminder-beep or chime without demanding your full attention and disrupting you from your workflow.
 
 TL;DR: use cluster alarms/notification apps that are pleasant to use.
 
     "What am I even doing with my life": Physical agenda books. "I get started on them but I never use them after" -- Then you don't have the agenda book that fits your needs. There's planners out there that split up days into hourly sections, and include monthly journal-like check-ins where you can look back and assess what worked, what didn't work, and if you're pursuing things that are aligning to your own personal goals/desires along with reminders to appreciate the people around you. I vouch for PassionPlanner, personally, but I've also moved on to finding other Agenda planners that you can order online, that allow you to choose the layout of your pages. (I wanted a minimalist planner that gives me space for notes but also has days sectioned by half-hours, for example). In addition, find the pens that you want to use. It has to feel good for us to use it. I also enjoy the excuse of slapping in stickers on everything, but that's just me. You have to turn your planner into something you have fun using, and want to use. Some people prefer undated planners, because we might 'skip' a few months and then feel bad about 'wasting' these months, but with an undated planner, you can just resume on your last page and write in the next few dates. The useage of stickers motivates me to actively add in distant/future meetings & events, and gives me an excuse to open the book frequently enough to track my life.
 
 TL;DR: Find the planner that works for YOU specifically.
 
     "Seriously, I'm just repeating in cycles": Less a "thing" and more a philosophy; we are often trapped by our past habits and past lifestyles, traumas, habit patterns, etc. "What we spend mental energy on is what we become" in a very simplified version of a bigger idea, but; what's the solution to that? Pull from the future. Think about who you want to become, where you want to be. Think about the possible paths you would need to take to get there. Would it take therapy? Community support? Getting fit? Switching careers? The danger of introspection is we can get caught-up in how we were that we forget to look to who we could become. It gets a lot easier to pursue new habits, new efforts, when we can actually identify if we're on "the right track" or not.
 
 TL;DR: Read/Listen-to-Audiobook "Unfuck Yourself"/ Be inspired by your future ideal self.
 
     "My Name's Jared & I can't Read": Trust me; subscribing to a cheap audiobook platform is lifechanging. I'm speaking as someone who also has a hearing disability; the benefit of an audiobook platform is that you can repeat the same book multiple times over, with no effort. You can use audiobooks as background noise to 'pad' unpleasant tasks like chores, dishes, and feed yourself media while doing something unpleasant or time-consuming. Plus, instead of impulse-purchasing fifty self-help books with only one or two you might skim through, having a portable book platform (like Scribd) lets you test-run as many self-help/productivity books as you want, without feeling like you 'have' to use this specific book if you don't vibe with it. You get to speed-run your own research on finding the solutions to your specific problem. Or use books as people-noises to go to sleep to. Learn by atmospheric osmosis.
     
