 People charged with crimes are just that.... people. The vast vast majority of them (over 90%) are poor people of color who are overpoliced due to a multitude of socioeconomic factors tied to the legacy of slavery, racism, and xenophobia in the US. They are not this foreign entity- "criminal"- of pure sociopaths or people devoid of normal feelings. They have entirely the same thought processes as you, your mom, your child, your friend, or that one asshole from highschool you never got along with. On any given day you walk out into the world and encounter people you love, people you hate, and most are somewhere in between. Its no different. Some of my clients are incredibly lovely, some are super funny, some are really sweet, some are obnoxious, some are charming, some are assholes, some are manipulative, some are polite, some are rude. Some are homeless, drug addicts, or mentally ill. These people still all fall into some spectrum of the categories above. 

They. Are. People.

To actually need to ask if these people could feel remorse......the MILLIONS of people charged with crimes every single day.....of course they do! They are human beings! They feel guilt, shame, remorse, pain, fear, hatred, love, happiness, joy, regret, THEY ARE HUMAN. The ease with which many people can otherize them so drammatically baffles me.

They're just people. A massive variety of factors goes into each case and no circumstance is identical the same way no person is identical. But to suggest every defendant is incapeable of accepting responsibility not only assumes that every defendant ACTUALLY DID SOMETHING WRONG (some did, some didn't) but fails to acknowledge the basic humanity of a huge swath of the population. 