 I think the answer to this depends on what you mean. 

Feminism is a sociological framework/philosophy with a lot of academic discussion and literature surrounding it. It had existed for a long period of time and has thus developed and worked through a lot of different means through which to address social issues, lobby for change, protest, and revolt (unlike other movements like Egalitarianism, which seem to exist in name only with little movement supporting it). Therefore, feminism can be a lens through which to analyze social problems and enact social change. 

If you mean, "do men's issues have a place within the larger philosophical, sociological, and activist movement of feminism," I think the answer is yes. 

If you mean, "should female feminists, specifically, lead the charge to address men's issues" the answer is no. 

Why?

The issue is multifaceted

/1. WOMEN LACK MEN'S COMPLETE PERSPECTIVE ON MEN'S ISSUES (a helping hand is different than leading the charge): Although feminism offers many tools which may aid in the struggle to address men's issues, and many recommendations (traditional male gender roles/toxic masculinity must be dismantled, you can't use the master's tools to destroy his house, avoid "choice" activism, you must enact change both on individual and systemic levels and be willing to make sacrifices and be judged for your choices, etc.), it is not the place for women to determine what they see as the problems of masculinity (insofar as this aspect of masculinity does not affect them). 

You have to keep in mind that male and female socialization is different, and although, since maleness is considered "neutral" and "default" and because women often do the bulk of men's emotional labor, they may have insight into problems with masculinity, they are not men and they cannot understand everything of the male perspective. Just like black people lead the charge for black rights, women lead the charge for women's rights, etc., men need to lead the charge for breaking down masculine gendered restrictions. \*\*Feminists know what it's like to have someone speak for you and we don't aim to do that for others.\*\*

&#x200B;

/2. OP ISN'T WELL-READ: Many times people will ask this question and then it turns out the type of feminist activism they're looking for actually already exists and they didn't know. If they'd done some research on unbiased sources (instead of raging antifeminist YouTube videos), they would know this. Changing the FBI definition of rape to include men? Feminists! Setting a supreme court precedent allowing men to stay home and care for aging parents? Feminist RBG! Advocating for breaking down gender roles with respect to childcare, paternity leave, housework, paid work, etc? Feminists!

&#x200B;

/3. THE PATRIARCHY PRIMARILY HARMS WOMEN: Feminists see a huge way to go with respect to changing gender roles and fighting patriarchy in their lives. Pragmatically, often this means addressing what they see to be the main issue holding people back in society, and often, since women are more harmed by patriarchy, this means focusing on women. 

Maybe a sex worker sees the decriminalization of sex work as the primary issue of today and wants to work toward that. Maybe an environmentalist wants to attack ecofascism and address the disproportionate harm to women in the global south caused by global warming. We all bring strengths to the table and it is not surprising or wrong to focus on the issues with which we are most familiar: you even want that, as an expert may have insights someone else may lack. 

This is also informed by the fact that many feminists are women, and therefore feel most passionate about women's issues. Again, deciding to focus your time on one issue does not mean you don't care about others. Funding an Alzheimer's charity does not mean that you don't care about cancer. Due to the complexity of the issue and the number of strains of feminism, it is only natural that we specialize. 

&#x200B;

/4. THE MAGIC COFFEE TABLE: Have you ever come home exhausted from work and had somebody ask you "what's for dinner?" What about gone to the bathroom and there's no TP because someone used the last of it and didn't put some back? Have you ever had a family member expect you to do their laundry or cleaning without doing any themselves? This is what this question and its implications feels like to feminists. 

You would not believe the number of times we get this question and the individual asking it has done nothing to address men's issues or do advocacy of their own. It's kind of like you spend an entire day building a sandcastle, carving it, protecting it from the waves, and someone comes up and demands their own sandcastle immediately, discounting the hours (more like decades for feminism) it took to get to where you are and then is mad when you can't deliver immediately (without doing anything on their own). 

Look up how Florence Nightingale advocated for improved hygiene and organization in medical hospitals for the masses of lower rank soldiers in war and then how she was written out of her own advocacy movements and her own efforts for increasing women in nursing were opposed and un or underfunded. Look up the advocacy sex worker feminists have done in porn to improve actors' working conditions and protections and then how the same men who benefitted protected male rapists. Look up Womanism/Black Feminism and the Civil Rights Movement. Women advocated for the rights of black individuals and then got no help with regard to their own issues of domestic violence and intersectional discrimination as well as the policing of black female sexuality. There is a history of women helping men with common issues and then receiving no help or even understanding and sympathy in return. The response (wanting good faith effort) is not one of revenge or punishment, but more a protective means through which to prevent this from happening again. 

If you've ever had a family member or friend who is like this, you will know what you have to do (for your own sanity) to maintain the relationship if you choose to do so: you demand at least equal work in accomplishing the goal together (which would be more than fair), help with your own needs (advocacy for women), and/or a good faith try on their own part first. Otherwise, you are continually taken advantage of and your goodwill strained, without any help with your own problems (and often with no recognition of your efforts). When we get these questions, the OP wants to do none of this. It's because the question isn't asked in good faith by someone who wants to address men's issues and is rather a smokescreen to hide an unreasonable hatred of feminism. 

/5. UNWILLINGNESS TO ACCEPT THE CONSEQUENCES OF FEMINIST ACTION: This one gets me in particular and shows up frequently on a feminist friendly subreddit that discussed men's issues. Men will post something, some aspect of traditional gender roles, like "men are expected to approach women," and when faced with what feminism would argue must happen for this to change (individual people must actively dismantle this expectation to build up momentum for change to happen on a systemic level), they don't want to take on that risk or negative. Instead they say "change must be systemic, not individual" as if systemic change is not a concerted movement of individuals changing their behavior and acting together to destroy any legal or unspoken roadblocks in the way. 

Women have been imprisoned, have been force fed, have been made to unwillingly carry children, have been correctively raped, have been institutionalized, have been arrested, have been sterilized, have been made guinea pigs in the name of science, all in the name of advancement of women's rights. Often feminists here make even small decisions (not shaving, asking men out, refusing to change their name, being the breadwinner, splitting housework evenly) that they know will have consequences to their appeal to the opposite sex, to their appeal to employers, to their friendships and family relationships. They are prepared to sacrifice. Men must demonstrate willingness to sacrifice (they have to be up for the advice feminists propose). Things will get harder before they get easier. 