---
created: 2021-04-01T18:06:24+05:30
modified: 2021-04-01T18:07:11+05:30
tags: [feminism]
---
[[feminism]]
 i live in a mid sized city of about 120k.  about halfway between two large cities.     none of it was taxed.   unfortunately we had a brief conversation before married and i took my wife’s word for it when she said “i get something through my work if i die” and that was it.   well that turned out to be about 50k.    it’s really not much.   there are other benefits.   like you get whatever retirement they had.   you also get benefits through social security as long as they paid into it.   not sure how that’s calculated.    but the person below is correct:  most of the befits is money paid for childcare which in my part of the country is very cheap at around $8000 a year.     my daughter is six now and thank god she is normal so far but that was the worst year of my life.    my hair turned gray in the following 18 months.    i’m 41 now and i look it. 

if i could add one more thing.  an item of perspective.    if you’re a guy who comes home from work, eats food you didn’t cook, goes to sleep, goes to work the next day, comes home, rinse repeat-   then you’re not carrying your end of the bargain.    as someone who’s carried it all you get a new perspective not only on the whole widower thing, but just single parenthood AND dual parenthood.    running the household is only 25% of “the deal”.  earning the money and being the breadwinner doesn’t let you abscond from doing the hard shit.      i make this comment because i’ve come to resent a lot of so called “great dads” out there who are neither great dads nor husbands.       i say don’t squander what you don’t even realize you have.   treat your wife or husband as your equal and empathize with their day.    you have to admire them, if you don’t then you can’t appreciate what they’re bringing to the table     kinda tangential but when she died it made me instantly understand how great we were and also understand and observe how many peer couples we knew really weren’t that great.         ehhhh i could write a book on the perspective change.     i’ll stop 
